Aug 1, 2015, 10:26 PM ET
GORDON EDES via ESPN
BOSTON -- Larry Lucchino, a baseball franchise-builder in three cities who oversaw three World Series titles in his tenure with the Boston Red Sox , is stepping down as team president and CEO at the end of the year, when his contract expires, a club spokesman confirmed Saturday.
"Fourteen years in a 24-7 job is a lot," Lucchino told the Boston Globe, which first reported the news. "I'll be 70 in September. That's sort of why I'm ready to step back."
Lucchino will take on a more strategic, less day-to-day role, according to a club source. Sam Kennedy, a Lucchino protg and the team's chief operating officer, will replace Lucchino as club president and report directly to principal owner John W. Henry and chairman Tom Werner, the source said.
While news of Lucchino's decision surfaced the day after the trade deadline, one in which the Red Sox did little to improve a ballclub headed toward its third last-place finish in the past four years, sources insisted that the timing was coincidental and that Lucchino was not being forced out.
"[Red Sox owners] have been discussing this with Larry ever since they renewed Sam's contract in 2012 with the assurance he would one day become president at the appropriate time," a club source said Saturday night.
Negotiations on the terms of Lucchino's departure began in earnest this spring, according to an industry source, with initial plans timed to announce his departure around Opening Day. But Lucchino, perhaps reluctant to relinquish the job after 37 years in Major League Baseball, put off an announcement.
Talks intensified in the past week, with the club tentatively planning to make an announcement next week.
Lucchino became CEO of the Red Sox upon completion of the purchase of the team in February 2002 by the ownership group headed by Henry and Werner and in which Lucchino had a smaller financial stake. He previously served as president/CEO of the Baltimore Orioles (1989-93) and the San Diego Padres (1995-2001).
He was with the Orioles when they won the World Series in 1983, was Padres CEO when they went to the World Series in 1998 and presided over the World Series title in 2004 that ended Boston's 86-year title drought and subsequent championships in 2007 and 2013.
As CEO of the Red Sox, Lucchino famously clashed with late New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. It was Lucchino who labeled the Yankees "the Evil Empire" in an interview with The New York Times.
During spring training in February, Henry and Werner refuted reports that Lucchino's role was being reduced to allow a greater voice to Michael Gordon, president of the Fenway Sports Group and the second-biggest shareholder on the team. Speculation grew when a masthead on the team's website listed Gordon above Lucchino, which Werner labeled a "mistake" and was subsequently amended.
"I can understand the interest in palace intrigue, but there isn't very much palace intrigue to report," Lucchino said at the time. "Mike's role has evolved over time, and he plays a very helpful role."
Lucchino acknowledged at the time that he envisioned taking a lesser role.
"At some point, I'm going to slow down," he said, "but we'll just take it year by year, which is what we've been doing the last few years.
Page
1
1
Paula French/AP Photo
Julio Cortez/AP Photo
