Updated August 02, 2015 03:29:48
Yemeni prime minister Khaled Bahah has made a symbolic visit to the devastated port of Aden from Saudi exile, two weeks after loyalist forces ousted Shiite rebels from the city.
Mr Bahah became the highest ranking official to return to the southern city since the government announced its liberation in mid-July.
He was followed by several more officials, whose task will be to restore normality and public services to a city battered by four months of ferocious combat.
Mr Bahah, who is also vice president of the internationally recognised government, fled into exile with president Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi and the rest of his team earlier this year when the rebels entered Aden, their last refuge.
Yemen has been rocked by fighting between the Houthi rebels and Hadi loyalists, who have received air support from a Saudi-led coalition.
The United Nations said the war had killed nearly 4,000 people, half of them civilians, while 80 per cent of the 21 million population was in need of aid and protection.
On Monday, a humanitarian pause declared by the coalition went into effect but collapsed the next day.
An airport source said Mr Bahah flew in on a Saudi military plane and promised in an arrival statement that "normal life" would return to a "liberated Aden".
He visited several districts and was briefed on damage to the presidential palace, state broadcaster and military headquarters, a security source said.
He was also to visit people wounded in the fighting during his hours-long symbolic visit, a member of his delegation said.
Mr Bahah later flew out to Abu Dhabi, a government source said.
"Aden is the key to victory" in reconquering the country, the premier's spokesman Rajeh Badi told Al-Arabiya television, adding that president Hadi could soon also return "at any time".
Several government officials also arrived in Aden on a separate plane from Saudi Arabia, according to human rights minister Ezzedine al-Isbahi.
He said they would supervise work underway to reopen public buildings, including the resumption of broadcast at the state television and radio, and restoration of services in the battered city.
The interior and transport ministers toured parts of Aden in mid-July during a brief visit to assess the damage from the fighting.
They also looked at ways to fully reopen the ports and airport to allow the delivery of desperately needed relief supplies.
Yemen depending on imports for supplies
The head of the Red Crescent in Aden, Ahmed Mansur, said the charity had received food aid from the United Arab Emirates and was able to hand out 20,000 rations to residents of three neighbourhoods.
Yemen depends on imports for most of its supplies, including food, medicine and fuel.
More than 10 million are struggling to obtain food and water, the UN said.
An AFP correspondent who toured Aden said authorities have managed to partially reopen main roads in the city after removing debris from the war, including burned-out military vehicles and cars.
Residents have also ventured outdoors to take stock of the damage, some returning from other areas of the city to homes devastated by the fighting.
Government forces were pressing an advance north and east of Aden to dislodge rebels who are still entrenched in the Lahj and Abyan provinces, officials and witnesses said.
Coalition warplanes carried out stepped-up raids late Friday and early Saturday against rebels holed up in the strategic Al-Anad airbase in Lahj province, military sources said.
Strikes also targeted the south-eastern province of Taez, where fighting killed 47 rebels and five pro-government forces, they added.
Meanwhile, witnesses reported coalition warplanes also bombarded the province of Mareb, east of Sanaa, and the rebel stronghold of Saada in the north on Saturday.
The rebels and their allies remain in control of the capital Sanaa and large swathes of the country.
AFP
Yemen conflict
Features
By Adrian Raschella
As the Australian film industry enjoys its best year in decades, producers push for a change to the rules governing work visas for foreign actors.
On a self-flown visit to her electorate of Farrer, Sussan Ley reflects on juggling cabinet and constituents.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
