LOWER LAKE, Calif.  Aug 1, 2015, 10:36 PM ET
By JEFF CHIU and HAVEN DALEY Associated Press
Blazes raging in forests and woodlands across California have taken the life of a firefighter and forced hundreds of people to flee their homes as crews continue to battle the flames from the air and the ground.
Twenty-three large fires, many sparked by lightning strikes, were burning across Northern California on Saturday, said Daniel Berlant, spokesman for the state Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. Some 9,000 firefighters were working to subdue them, something made incredibly difficult by several years of drought that have dried out California.
"The conditions and fire behavior we're seeing at 10 in the morning is typically what we'd see in late afternoon in late August and September," said Nick Schuler, a division chief with Cal Fire. "But because of the dry conditions, because of the drought-stricken vegetation accompanied by the steep terrain and winds, we're seeing fire activity that's abnormal for this time of year."
The fires prompted Gov. Jerry Brown to declare a state of emergency for California and activate the California National Guard to help with disaster recovery.

FIRFIGHTER KILLED
Engine Capt. David Ruhl, from South Dakota , was killed battling a fast-moving blaze that broke out Thursday in the Modoc National Forest about 100 miles south of Oregon.
Ruhl was in a vehicle Thursday, looking for ways to fight the blaze, when officials lost contact with him, fire information officer Ken Sandusky said. His body was recovered Friday.
Ruhl, part of a Black Hills National Forest firefighting team, had been helping California firefighters since June.

BURNING HILLS
The biggest fire was in the Lower Lake area north of San Francisco, where firefighters had to wade through thick smoke and flying embers to turn loose horses, goats and other livestock as their owners fled to safety.
The fast-moving fire had burned three homes by Friday and was threatening 450 other structures. Only 5 percent contained by Saturday, it had charred 35 square miles south of Clear Lake, a popular summer recreation spot.
At least 650 residents have been evacuated from their homes as the blaze raged in hills covered in dense brush and oak trees and dotted with ranch homes.
"We saw it behind our house. We saw the smoke pouring over. So we just started collecting stuff and we left, to find out later that everyone was evacuated out here," said resident Julie Flannery.
When they returned Friday, they found their two horses and one mule were gone. They hoped firefighters turned them loose so they could make their way to safety.

FOOTHILLS FIRES
A woman was arrested in connection with a small fire near Groveland, a stop-off point for travelers headed to Yosemite National Park .
The 200-acre fire, about 20 miles from the park's entrance, was 45 percent contained Saturday, when all evacuations were lifted and residents were allowed to return to their homes.
Page
1
1
Julio Cortez/AP Photo
