Alpharetta Neighbors Say Funeral For Bobbi Kristina Was Handled VeryProfessionally
August 1, 2015 5:53 PM
Related Tags:
Maria Boynton
Maria Boynton was named anchor of CBS Radio Atlanta V-103s mor...
Renee Reid lives near the Alpharetta church where the funeral of Bobbi Kristina Brown was held Saturday. She says that she and other residents stood across the street from St. James United Methodist church to show their respects. She says of the media camped out in front of the church, and the preceeding activities, very well done, very respectful. Reid says that she often saw Bobbi Kristina in the area and we would see them out and about, and she (referring to Bobbi Kristina) was just a young girl who suffered a loss, and unfortunately has lost her life now.
Courtney Brown (l) and F. Murray Ford (r)  live in the Alpharetta neighborhood where the funeral of Bobbi Kristina Brown was held. Ford called it a sad situation and added, Im very happy that people came out to support the families of Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown. (Credit: Maria Boynton/CBS Local)
Nancy Bell said that she felt blessed to be a part of it all. Bell, who also lives in the area, says its very sad, but at the same time, just being here with them in spirit is a blessing. She goes on to say, I feel so sorry for them, just the way it happened.
Kim Sanders lives about 800 feet from St. James United Methodist Church. She says she was on the outside supporting Bobby Brown, saying that shes a huge fan. I really hate it for him, losing Whitney a short time ago, and now Bobbi Kristina. My condolences to him and the family.
Maria Corkern brought a chair and sat across the street from the church. She has been a resident of Alpharetta since 2004. Im getting an idea of what being a celebrity is like. Its a circus. She added, We have to always remember that Bobby Brown is burying his daughter today. Corkern also said that she has a 23 year old daughter, My heart really breaks for him. no one should have to bury their child.
Some members of the Alpharetta community brought chairs and positioned themselves across the street from St. James United Methodist Church. The funeral for Bobbi Kristina Brown was held at the church Saturday. (Credit: Maria Boynton/CBS Local)
Well-known Atlanta resident, Rev. Cal Merrell aka The Happy Preacher, says he knew Whitney Houston personally. He says, there were times when I would just talk to  her about her addictions. Merrell also said, When she got pregnant (with Bobbi Kristina), I prayed that the baby would be gifted, talented, would love the Lord, and live a long life. He says, When the accident happened in January, it made the Happy Preacher really despondent. His message for the family he says is for them to put it in Gods hand. She had plenty of time to say to the Lord every mistake, every sin I ever committed, forgive me.
-Maria Boynton, CBS Local
Latest Videos
Other CBS Local Cities
2015 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
