Aug 1, 2015
Jae C. Hong/Associated Press
15.7K
Reads
24
Comments
Los Angeles Angels starting pitcher C.J. Wilson looks like he might miss the rest of the season with an elbow injury. But he isn't making any friends on his way out, as some of his teammates are "skeptical"of just how hurt he really is,according to CBSSports.com's David Brown .
Alden Gonzalez of MLB .com reported on Saturday that Wilson "has basically decided he can no longer pitch this season," after discovering that there are "loose bodies," or bone spurs, in his left elbow.
But this is something that Wilson has known about since the beginning of the season, as he told Gonzalez:"That's the frustrating thing that I couldn't get through the end of the season. I knew based on the diagnosis in April that this was an eventuality, that I was going to have to get this done again. But I'm 100 innings short of where I hoped I would make it."
Wilson has pitched 132.0 innings this season, compiling an 8-8 record with a 3.89 ERA and 110 strikeouts. He's the No. 1 pitcher on an Angels team that is in a race with the Houston Astros for the American League West lead.
But his self-diagnosis, along with his timing, has "several Angels teammates" frustrated by his decision to shut things down as they want him to try to make it until the end of the season, according to Brown.
Wilson responded by telling Gonzalez that he's been "pushing through it for a couple of months," but his situation has not improved while appearing to receive little support from his team.
Brown believes the Angels are playing with fire in this situation and there's a very good chance they get burned:
Being skeptical that someone isn't that hurt when he says he's hurt is a dangerous thing to do on a sports team. These guys are crammed together for several months out of the year and, even if they don't all like each other, they count on the support of teammates...Again, nobody has said this to the press, but it's as if Angels officials (along with several teammates) are telling Wilson he needs to pitch through the pain. It's outrageous. It's disgusting. It's total baloney sandwich, if you get the euphemism.
If Wilson exits, it's doubtful that it would affect team chemistry much during the last few months of the season, but if he does remain with the team, things could get ugly in the clubhouse.

Launch a career
