
Its not easy to overshadow a guy who hit two home runs, including the first grand slam of his career. Yet, rookie phenom Carlos Correas historic power display definitely rivaled Hank Congers career night Saturday at Minute Maid Park.
Conger and Correa each had the first multi-home run games of their careers to help the Astros pound the Diamondbacks 9-2 before a crowd of 36,602.
Correa hit a solo home run to left in the first and a two-run blast to right in the sixth, becoming the first shortstop in more than a century to collect 12 home runs by their 46th game in the majors.
For a historical perspective its important to note that eight home runs were the previous high for a shortstop through the first 46 games of a career. Hall of Famer Ernie Banks, Nomar Garciaparra, and Geoff Blum all had eight home runs through the first 46 games of their respective careers, tying for the previous high for a shortstop.
The Astros, who tied the three-game series at one apiece, have been on a home run binge since Friday. They have driven in 15 of their 16 runs in the last three games through the long ball.
Correa, who wont turn 21 until Sept. 22, has drilled three home runs over the last three games. Not bad for the youngest position player in the majors.
The top overall pick in the 2012 draft leads all of American League shortstop in home runs this year. Moreover, Correa leads the Astros in home runs (12), RBIs (32) and hits (55) since he made his debut in the majors on June 8 against the White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field.
Astros ace lefthander Dallas Keuchel, who needed 44 pitches to escape a difficult second inning, got more than enough offensive support to take the American League lead in victories with his 13th.
Keuchel (13-5) held the Diamondbacks to two runs on two hits and three walks with eight strikeouts over six innings to break a tie with teammate Collin McHugh and the Mariners Felix Hernandez for the most wins in the AL.
Keuchel also set a new franchise record for the most consecutive starts with at least six innings.
He has lasted at least six innings in 33 consecutive starts for the longest such streak in franchise history, breaking the mark Brett Myers set from April 7 to Sept. 24, 2010.
Arizona righthander Jeremy Hellickson suffered the loss after giving up seven hits and seven runs, six earned, with two walks and two strikeouts over 3 1/3 innings.
Correa gave the Astros a 1-0 lead with his home run to left field in the first inning. The Diamondbacks countered right away while threatening to knock Keuchel out early.
Arizona third baseman Aaron Hill hit a one-out single through the right side. Yasmany Tomas followed with a walk. Jarrod Saltalamacchia then tied the score at 1 with an RBI single to center. Keuchel struck out Chris Owings on a 90-mph fastball on the outside corner for a called third strike.
Cliff Pennington loaded the bases with a walk. Ender Inciarte plated another run with a walk, giving the Diamondbacks a 2-1 lead. Keuchel escaped further damage by inducing a grounder to short from Ahmed, but he needed 44 pitches to get out of the inning.
Keuchel returned to the mound in the third and struck out the side, beginning with slugger Paul Goldschmidt, to settle in.
Conger tied the score at 2 with a leadoff home run to right in the third.
The Astros knocked Hellickson out in the fourth to take full control.
Evan Gattis got the five-run rally going with a one-out double to center. Jed Lowrie then reached on shortstop Ahmeds error. Hellickson hit Rasmus with a pitch to load the bases. Chris Carter drew a walk to plate the go-ahead run.
Conger broke it open with the Astros first grand slam of the season and the first of his career. Jose Altuve followed with a single to left, and Carlos Gomez added a double off the third basemans glove for his first hit as an Astro.
Two innings later, Correa sent a two-run home run to right field to claim the first multi-home run game of his brilliant career.
You are currently Signed In
What do you think of the Scott Kazmir trade?
Great move, he should be a good fit in the rotation
It's good, but more moves need to be made
Bad move, they gave up too much
It's too early to tell
Search
Subscribe
Sign up now!
Team Schedule
Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.
Select Month
Show Earlier
Send us a correction!
Did we make a mistake? Complete the form to let us know.
0/1000 characters
Send us a tip or link!
Want to share a story idea with us? Know something we don't? Complete the form below to send us a news tip.
0/1000 characters
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
