To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter
August 1, 2015 by Sam Kerry No Comments
Edmunds has studied the sales of used Teslas by looking at registration data for the more than pre-owned 1,600 Model S cars resold thus far (out of total U.S. sales of 45,000 to 50,000 cars through June).
The first and most accessible incentive is that this program will pay current owners $1,000 in credits to persuade friends and family to buy a new Tesla  credit only, no cash will be exchanged.
The analysis shows 36% of all used Model S buyers earned less than $100,000 per year, while only 25% buyers who bought a new model fit in the same category.
Get your friends to buy enough of these and you could have yourself a Model X.
Sedan owners who refer 10 viable actual buyers will have a chance to buy a limite-edition Founders Series  Model X at a very discounted price.
Speaking to reporters today, Tesla CEO Elon Musk characterized the referral program as a test of an approach that could ultimately cut the cost of opening retail stores around the country.
The promotion will run through October 31, 2015, with the possibility that it will continue if the experiment is a success. Current owners are likely to be making lots of referrals as they clamor for Teslas prizes.
If you refer anyone using your referral link to buy a Tesla Model S, Tesla will throw a coupon to you good for a $1,000 discount on a new auto, service center visit, or accessory (up to ten per person.). Announcing the plan on Twitter, Musk said that dealing with low-contrast lane markings has been the final hurdle to getting the feature working.
In an email sent to customers Musk stated Word of mouth has always been a major part of how Tesla sales have grown. Those who come up with five referrals will get an invitation for them and a guest to attend the April, 2016 opening of the Tesla gigafactory near Reno, Nevada.
Were trying to figure out if we can reduce the cost of selling the auto and pass it on to customers, Musk said Wednesday during a conference call with journalists. No firm release date was given, and theres still one last issue they need to prepare for, but if all goes well we should be downloading the new software soon.
Leave a Reply
