You have successfully emailed the post.
A new poll has another batch of bad news for Hillary Clinton
See Also
She has received her worst favorability rating ever. She has lost ground on Republicans' three strongest candidates. And she is perceived to be about as honest and trustworthy as Donald Trump.
Those are some of the troubling numbers for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in a new poll released Thursday by Quinnipiac University.
The poll still shows her with a commanding lead in the Democratic race, as she leads with 55% of the Democratic vote nationwide.
US Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont), who is running as a Democrat, grabs 17% of the vote. Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet said whether he will run, gets 13% support from Democratic primary voters.
From there, though, the numbers show some complications for the Democratic front-runner. For one, Biden is running about as well against top Republicans in hypothetical general-election matchups. She has lost significant ground against those opponents since Quinnipiac's poll from May.
Here's a quick breakdown:
Clinton trails former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida (R) 42-41. She led Bush by 10 points in May. Biden, on the other hand, leads Bush by 1 point.
Clinton leads Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin (R) 44-43. She led Walker by 8 points in May. Biden is tied with Walker.
Thomson ReutersRepublican presidential candidate Donald Trump at a news conference near the US-Mexico border.
Clinton does, however, lead real-estate magnate Donald Trump by 12 points in a theoretical general-election matchup.
"The good news for Secretary Hillary Clinton is that she is over 50% among Democrats and has a double-digit lead over Trump," Tim Malloy, the assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said.
"The not-so-good news is that she is locked in too-close-to-call races with Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. And Vice President Joseph Biden runs just as well as her against the top Republicans."
Clinton also recorded her worst favorability score ever in the Quinnipiac survey. Just 40% of voters view her favorably, compared with 51% who see her in an unfavorable light. Biden gets a 49-39 split on favorability, his best score in seven years. Both Bush (43-41) and Walker (36-27) are in positive territory.
Finally, continuing a trend seen in key swing-state polls last week , most voters do not view Clinton as "honest and trustworthy." By a 57-37 margin, poll respondents said Clinton was not honest and trustworthy. And 52% said she didn't care "about their needs or problems."
The "honest and trustworthy" numbers put her almost on par with Trump: Voters say by a 58-33 margin that he is not honest and trustworthy.
"Republicans say Trump is honest and Democrats say Clinton is honest, but among all voters, both candidates come up short," Malloy said. "How can you become a general election front-runner if most voters don't trust you?"
Loading
She has received her worst favorability rating...
Recommended For You
Featured
10 Things Before the Opening Bell
Instant MBA
Breaking News
Digital Media Chart Of The Day
IoT Chart of the Day
Closing Bell
Thanks to our partners
* Copyright  2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
