1:46 | 08/01/15
Coming up next:
Enhanced full screen
Explore related content
Transcript for Bionic Eye Restores Woman's Vision
Growing up Carmen Tories didn't think much about her vision until the age of eighteen. Which is diagnosed at a night and it toasts dish in which her vision gradually declines over time at the age of 45 tourists could see yourself in the mirror anymore. I get that well when in capacity. Because you don't add another choice you have to willful mr. nice. After sixteen years of being blind there was finally some Hulk. A team of doctors at bats and Palmer eye institute discovered a possible solution a buy ironic that I. This works its and it pleased I the patient wears special glasses and a miniature video camera. That camera captured what is being seen. That its profits by small computer that's attached to Alter Ers the signal is then sent backed the glass. And. Oh meticulous stick me. Exact precise measurement. We here to police these components the it's really important. And we really took our time. The procedures the first of its kind in Florida and tourists the first patient to receive the by on a guy. Pitches. That. Sleep it. Previously. Is amazing. The results have been dramatic to say the east tourists says she is now able to locate doors and windows C sidewalks and buildings and watch the stars outside her home. She says the procedure has truly been life changing its. There was announced. But I'm varies Jong I didn't pan I was happy and I was the flapping like crazy. Fernandez local ten years. Keener. Now when.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: Little Boy Gets a Double Hand Transplant
Now Playing: Historic Dual Hand Transplant Gives Boy Second Chance at Life
Now Playing: World's First Skull-Cap Transplant Performed in Texas
Now Playing: Miracle Baby Finally Goes Home After a Year in the Hospital
Now Playing: FDA Warns That Commonly Used Medical Device Can Be Hacked
Now Playing: Bionic Eye Restores Woman's Vision
Now Playing: Stephanie Epstein Speaks Out After Tree Crashes on Top of Her
Now Playing: ABC's Jonathan Karl Questions White House Press Secretary Over Planned Parenthood Videos
Now Playing: Promising News on Experimental Ebola Vaccine
Now Playing: How Parents Can Protect Kids From Ticks
Now Playing: Legionnaires' Disease Outbreak Reported in NYC
Now Playing: How Pet Therapy Emotionally, Physically Benefits Nursing Home Residents
Now Playing: Leah Still's Cancer Still in Remission
Now Playing: Two Boys Severely Sunburned at Daycare Outing
Now Playing: Kidspace Museum Visitors Injured After Tree Collapses
Now Playing: Inspiring 8-Year-Old Starts Non-Profit to Help Sick Kids
Now Playing: Orangutan 'Kisses' Pregnant Woman's Belly at Zoo
Now Playing: The Truth About Fertility: How Much Is a Human Egg Worth?
Now Playing: NY Woman Survives After Tree Smashes Through Home
Now Playing: 911 Operator During Emergency Call: 'Not Going to Deal With This'
Now Playing: How to Survive a Lightning Strike
Now Playing: {{itm.title}}
