1:40 | 08/01/15
Coming up next:
Enhanced full screen
Explore related content
Related Extras
Related Videos
Video Transcript
Transcript for FDA Warns That Commonly Used Medical Device Can Be Hacked
And next to a threat we have never before seen. A common medical device found in so many hospital rooms could be vulnerable to a cyber attack. The fda warning hospitals, be on alert for hackers. Here's ABC's aditi Roy. Reporter: Hospitals across the country receiving an unprecedented warning by the fda tonight, that a commonly used medical device may be at risk of getting hacked. The device, has pir are's symbiq infusion pump, is used to deliver medications like painkillers and cancer treatments to patients through an iv. In its warning, the fda says, an unauthorized user with malicious intent could access the pump remotely and modify the dosage it delivers. So, every hospital should assume that its devices, if connected to the internet, can be attacked. And so this -- it's an important warning. This is not an isolated incident. Reporter: Hospira says it deployed an update to provide customers with an extra layer of security, until the pump is completely off the market in a few months. A move already in the works before this warning. This new worry over health care hacks comes just after fiat-chrysler issued a voluntary recall of 1.7 million vehicles to install software to prevent hacking. Kill the engine. Reporter: A vulnerability seen in this demonstration video, when hackers took control of this jeep. These two cases, showing how the rewards of technology also come with risks. And the fda says there was no specific hacking attempt that prompted this warning, but still says there's a very reel possibility, Cecilia, this could happen. Scary possibility, too. Aditi, thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Three years ago, company employees involved in drinking, drugs scandal in Afghanistan.
Now Playing: Investigation: Checkered Past for Firm Paid to Help OPM Hack
Now Playing: Android Phones at Risk From Text Hack
Now Playing: Miracle Baby Finally Goes Home After a Year in the Hospital
Now Playing: FDA Warns That Commonly Used Medical Device Can Be Hacked
Now Playing: Bionic Eye Restores Woman's Vision
Now Playing: Stephanie Epstein Speaks Out After Tree Crashes on Top of Her
Now Playing: ABC's Jonathan Karl Questions White House Press Secretary Over Planned Parenthood Videos
Now Playing: Promising News on Experimental Ebola Vaccine
Now Playing: How Parents Can Protect Kids From Ticks
Now Playing: Legionnaires' Disease Outbreak Reported in NYC
Now Playing: How Pet Therapy Emotionally, Physically Benefits Nursing Home Residents
Now Playing: Leah Still's Cancer Still in Remission
Now Playing: Two Boys Severely Sunburned at Daycare Outing
Now Playing: Historic Dual Hand Transplant Gives Boy Second Chance at Life
Now Playing: Kidspace Museum Visitors Injured After Tree Collapses
Now Playing: Inspiring 8-Year-Old Starts Non-Profit to Help Sick Kids
Now Playing: Orangutan 'Kisses' Pregnant Woman's Belly at Zoo
Now Playing: The Truth About Fertility: How Much Is a Human Egg Worth?
Now Playing: NY Woman Survives After Tree Smashes Through Home
Now Playing: 911 Operator During Emergency Call: 'Not Going to Deal With This'
Now Playing: How to Survive a Lightning Strike
Now Playing: {{itm.title}}
