Weather
for
August 1, 2015; 9:15 PM ET
The air felt like an exceptional 163 F (73 C) in Bandar Mahshahr, Iran, on Friday, and no relief is expected in the foreseeable future.
Due to extreme heat and humidity, Bandar Mahshahr registered an apparent temperature of 154 F (68 C) on Thursday. "That was one of the most incredible temperature observations I have ever seen and it is one of the most extreme readings ever in the world," stated AccuWeather Meteorologist Anthony Sagliani.
However, such an exceptional apparent temperature outdid itself on Friday.
Probably the most incredible ob I've ever seen. Bandar Mahshahr, Iran today: Temp: 109F (43C) Dew Point: 90F (32C). pic.twitter.com/Lb2AsDAtK0
The combination of an actual temperature of 115 F (46 C) and a dew point temperature of 90 F (32 C) pushed the apparent temperature to 163 F (73 C) Friday afternoon local time. This reading would have been even higher if a breeze was not blowing, a factor in the calculation of the apparent temperature.
"A strong ridge of high pressure has persisted over the Middle East through much of July, resulting in the extreme heat wave in what many would consider one of the hottest places in the world," stated Sagliani.
Amid this heat wave, Baghdad experienced its all-time record high on Thursday when temperatures soared to 124 F (51 C).
"Around the Persian Gulf, where water temperatures are in the lower to middle 90s (30s C), the extreme heat combines with incredibly high humidity to produce astounding apparent temperatures," Sagliani continued in regards to the exceptional feeling heat around Bandar Mahshahr.
RELATED:
"As the land heats up around the Persian Gulf, the air rises quickly and rushes inland from the Gulf, creating an onshore wind that pulls humid air sitting over the waters into coastal communities," he added.
Water temperatures in the Persian Gulf are running a bit above normal, contributing to even higher than normal humidity.
"Believe it or not, it is always very humid in these places surrounding the Persian Gulf during the summer, but the nature of the extreme heat wave is causing some of the highest combinations of heat and humidity ever observed," he continued.
Relief from the oppressive heat and humidity in Bandar Mahshahr and along the Persian Gulf will not come anytime soon.
"Right now, it appears as though the ridge of high pressure will remain in place across the Middle East through at least the next week, so more oppressive heat and humidity, and more astounding apparent temperatures, are likely through the next several days," added Sagliani.
Residents are urged to use extreme caution amid this heat wave to avoid suffering a heat-related illness or succumbing to a heat-related death. Be sure to drink plenty of water, wear light clothing and seek out cooling centers.
Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines . Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.
More Weather News
August 1, 2015; 9:17 PM ET
The stream of moisture into the Southwest is drying out some, so this weekend may not be as wet as the previous few days.
August 1, 2015; 9:15 PM ET
The air felt like an exceptional 163 F in Bandar Mahshahr, Iran, on Friday and similar or worse conditions will follow.
Drenching thunderstorms bring little-to-no relief to drought-stricken areas of the Sunshine State.
August 1, 2015; 9:11 PM ET
With no exact details on where Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 went missing, Indian Ocean currents may have swept one piece of the complicated puzzle to shores on Reunion Island.
August 1, 2015; 9:09 PM ET
In the most destructive hurricane season in recorded history, images from Katrina, Rita, Wilma and others still resonate today and immediately bring to mind the total despair millions of Americans faced in 2005.
After months of below-normal rainfall, Santiago, Chile, could finally be looking at some beneficial rain for the middle of next week.
Texas (1980)
Heat wave continues for the following:  Abilene - 41 consecutive days of 98 degrees   or higher, tied 1952 record. Dallas/Ft. Worth - 41st consecutive day of   100 degrees + El Paso - 51st consecutive day of 100   degrees +
Chicago, IL (1988)
100 degrees -- 7th day of 100 degrees or higher in 1088 -- an all-time record number.
Florida (1995)
Hurricane Erin crossed central Florida from the east with 50-70 mph wind gusts.  9.06" of rain fell in Melbourne.  (An all time 24 hour record).
Rough Weather
AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
