Jan Kruger, Spencer Platt/Getty Images
This week, Cardinal Timothy Dolan took to the New York Daily News towrite an incoherent and defamatory political hit piece againstDonald Trump.
As a Catholic priest, Ican only say it is embarrassing to have a Cardinal so blatantly andunfairly trying to associate Mr. Trump with the worst kinds ofracism imaginable. I offer an apology on behalf of so manyCatholics who are outraged by the dirty politics of Cardinal Dolan.
Ever so cleverly, Dolan makes clear that in his opinion Trump isthe revival of nativism, an organized, white, Protestantantagonism towards the Catholic immigrant, which for Dolan isjust a more recent incarnation of the KKK and other racistorganizationsan absurd claimand perhaps one of the mostignorant statements and mean-spirited remarks I have ever seen abishop state publicly. The more than clear implication by Dolanthat Trump is a white supremacist reaches levels of defamation thateven the most liberal media has not dare trod.
Dolan should perhaps realize that the continued race bating in thiscountry by President Obama and others is immoral and destructiveto the social fabric of our nation. For Dolan to join the base ranksof the peddlers of hate, dividing Catholics and Protestants, blacksand white, the poor and the rich as well as Americans fromimmigrants is intellectually dishonest. Dolans words areunbecoming of a bishop and are not factual.
Dolan who is quick to claim that he is not telling people who theyshould not vote for, provides the usual vacuous caveat only after hehas done all the damage. This is the same bishop who is silentabout the recently revealed atrocities of Planned Parenthood, whodid little to defend marriage and has done absolutely nothing aboutpro abortion politicians in his diocese receiving communion andremaining falsely in good standing in the Catholic Church.
Dolan laments that he is not still teaching in college his absurdnativist ideology. I can only say I am relieved for those who wouldbe subjected to his indoctrination, lamentably he has free rein toattack Republicans in the public square.
Dolan is not known for his intellectual depth but his aides shouldconsider reading over his pubic statements to spare AmericanCatholics some embarrassment. Dolan seems jovially unaware ofthe social unrest that lax immigration laws are causing in France,England and other nations in Europe. It is not Catholic or Christianto advocate for irresponsible immigration. Immigration to be ofany help to immigrants and the host country, requires order,
knowledge and balance.
Dolan who is also not known for his humility and mercy will likelynever apologize, but he should.
If Dolan were to say something sensible about politics to Catholicshe should perhaps state the obvious: no Catholic in goodconscience can vote for the Democratic party, a party that supportsfunding Planned Parenthood, opposes marriage, and is seen to bedevastating the social fabric of this nation while bringing economicruin to a once prosperous country.
Truth be told, Dolan who has been busy closing numerous Catholicparishes in New York and selling valuable Catholic real estate,could frankly use Trumps business acumen advice.
I apologize as a Catholic priest to Mr. Trump and wish to let himknow that many of us desire to publicly disassociate ourselvesfrom any perception that what Cardinal Dolan wrote is any wayconsistent with Catholic doctrine or the basic decency required ofall people of good will.
Read More Stories About:
Breitbart Video Picks
Fox News National
Email*
Fox News National
Fox News Sports
