START A PETITION 27,000,000 members: the world's largest community for good
get healthy living updates
No man wants to hear the diagnosis of prostate cancer, no matter his ethnic background. But, according to new research published in the Annals of Surgical Innovation and Research, some men are at a significantly greater risk than others, depending on ethnic background.
Researchers at Prostate Cancer UK, in London, England and Public Health England, in Bristol, England used twenty years of data of men throughout England from the 1990-2010 England National Cancer Data Repository and found some startling results. The risk of being diagnosed with prostate cancer is:
- 1 in 8 for white men, which included White British, White Irish and white men of other origins;
- 1 in 4 for black men, which included Black African, Black Caribbean and black men of other origins; and
- 1 in 13 for Asian men, which included Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi and men of other Asian origins.
The risk of dying from prostate cancer is:
- 1 in 24 for white men;
-1 in 12 for black men; and
-1 in 44 for Asian men.
According the study, black men have twice the risk of being diagnosed with or dying from prostate cancer compared to white men. Asian men had much lower rates of prostate cancer diagnosis and death than either white or black men. The study also found that black men were diagnosed five years earlier than men of other ethnicities, on average. The reason for the increased risk of prostate cancer in black men over other ethnicities of men is still unclear.
While other risk factors for prostate cancer have been explored, this new study sheds light on the role ethnicity plays. Other risk factors for prostate cancer include age and a family history of prostate cancer in an immediate relative. Research also shows that for every extra 11 pounds (5 kilograms) of excess body weight a man carries, he has an 8 percent increased risk of prostate cancer, showing that even if there are other risk factors involved, a man can still make a significant difference in reducing his risk by maintaining a healthy body weight. Other research shows that it is especially important to reduce abdominal fat in the prevention of prostate cancer as there is a 12 percent increased risk of prostate cancer for every 4 inches (10 cm) a man carries around his abdomen.
Glyphosate , an herbicide found in products like Monsantos Roundup, which is still heavily used in the spraying of lawns and food crops, has also been linked to prostate cancer. Eating organic and avoiding areas sprayed with the cancer-causing product will also likely help in the prevention of the disease.
Prostate specific antigen, or PSA , is the most common medical test procedure used in the diagnosis of prostate cancer and is easily obtained from a blood sample at your doctors office or laboratory. As with all forms of cancer, early detection is beneficial in the prognosis of the disease.
Related
GET MORE STUFF LIKE THIS IN YOUR INBOX
go ahead, give it a little love
share story:
Thanks for this information.
Your report of abuse has been received and will be reviewed.
The response report you have submitted was unable to transmit.  Please try your submission again or contact support.
6:48PM PDT                 on                 Aug  1, 2015
Another reason for preventive checkups. Go to the doctor, men. We want you around for a long time.
6:48PM
Your report of abuse has been received and will be reviewed.
The response report you have submitted was unable to transmit.  Please try your submission again or contact support.
login to add your comment
use your care2 login
or
Connect via Facebook. Just click on the icon, & we'll connect your profile.
add your comment
Receive Care2 Action Alerts via email!
Share my comment on Facebook
Disclaimer: The views expressed above are solely those of the author and may         not reflect those of
Care2, Inc., its employees or advertisers.
video spotlight
most popular
>
3 minutes ago
Hello and Welcome to  Prophet Olawashinor Olajuju Oil Spiritual Home where all your worries will c
28 minutes ago
Once or maybe twice would be cute, but the women just kept bothering the cat.
34 minutes ago
Not all fish oil is equal though, some cheap brands of fish oil are waste of money and could do harm
enter multiple email addresses separated by commas (up to 100)
Select names from your address book| Help

Personal message
 
We hate spam.  We do not sell or share the email addresses you provide.
FEATURED NONPROFIT PARTNERS
