By Jared Dubin | Staff Writer
August  1, 2015  5:11 PM ET
Junior Seau's daughter will speak at the Hall of Fame after all. (Instagram)
According to a report from Fox Sports , the Pro Football Hall of Fame will allow the daughter of former San Diego Chargers linebacker Junior Seau to speak at Seau's induction ceremony Aug. 8.
Sydney will be given the chance to participate in an on-stage interview conducted after the unveiling of Seau's bust. The Hall also has invited Sydney and Seau's three sons to unveil his bust on stage. Normally, the unveiling is only done by the presenter and enshrinee.
The Hall will continue to uphold its rule calling for only a video presentation of a posthumous inductee that includes the presenter's speech. However, the Hall has taped a 6-1/2-minute highlight video of Seau's 20-year NFL career that includes comments from Sydney. The normal highlight video lasts three minutes.
Sydney also will be participating in the Thursday night "Gold Jacket" ceremony that marks the first major Hall event of the week. She will be given the chance to make remarks during the NFL Network telecast.
It was previously announced last week that no members of Seau's family would be permitted to speak at the ceremony due to a policy change instituted by the Hall of Fame in 2010.
"It's frustrating because the induction is for my father and for the other players, but then to not be able to speak, it's painful, Sydney said of the decision at the time. She clarified that her speech would have nothing to do with the family's wrongful death lawsuit against the NFL, which was filed in January 2013 after Seau committed suicuide in May 2012. "I just want to give the speech he would have given. It wasn't going to be about this mess. My speech was solely about him."
In the aftermath of that decision being announced, the Seau family lawyer stated that the Hall of Fame had previously informed the family Sydney would be able to speak, and that though they were disappointed she wouldn't be allowed to do so, they were still looking forward to celebrating Seau's induction.
The Seau family appreciates the overwhelming support for Sydney Seau to be able to accept Junior's induction into the Hall of Fame live and in her own words, Steve Strauss, the family's lawyer, said in a statement, via the SportsBusiness Journal. Unfortunately, the Hall of Fame is unwilling to reverse its decision despite communicating to the family earlier this year that Sydney would be able to speak at the ceremony.
"Contrary to the most recent statement by the Hall of Fame, the family does not support the current policy that prevents family members from delivering live remarks on behalf of deceased inductees. However, the Seau family does not want this issue to become a distraction to Junior's accomplishments and legacy or those of the other inductees. The Seau family never intended to use the Hall of Fame as a platform to discuss the serious mental health issues facing the NFL today which are most appropriately addressed in a legal forum. The Seau family looks forward to celebrating Junior's extraordinary accomplishments at the Hall of Fame.
Thankfully, the Hall of Fame has changed course and will allow Sydney to speak, even if it's in the form of an interview rather than her prepared speech.
NEVER MISS A MOCK DRAFT
Sign up to our newsletter and find out who your team could be picking
11:14 pm
8:27 pm
6:34 pm
5:11 pm
1
2

