Houston Chronicle
An assistant stage manager for the outdoor historical musical performed nightly at Palo Duro Canyon State Park was killed in a fireworks-related accident, prompting cancelation of two shows while investigators look at what may have set off the pyrotechnics that are used in the production.
Peyton Trueblood, 21, of Tuscaloosa, Ala., was checking inventory in a storage shed before the Friday show when two magazines containing fireworks exploded and killed her, officials said. A small grass fire adjacent to the building was quickly extinguished, though firefighters dealt with hot spots through the night at the park, located about 25 miles south of Amarillo. Debris was scattered up to 200 yards away from the point of the explosion.
No other injuries were reported. The Randall County Sheriff's Department and the State Fire Marshal's office are looking into the incident. It has not yet been determined what ignited the fireworks.
The musical "TEXAS" - a celebration of state history - has been performed for 50 years in the park's amphitheater, which is set in a natural basin below towering cliffs. The elaborate production uses "fictional characters (to) bring to life the stories, struggles and triumphs of the settlers of the Texas Panhandle in the 1800s," according to the musical's website. Every performance concludes with a fireworks display.
Current plans call for the musical to resume Sunday night. The last scheduled performance is Aug. 15.
"Our hearts are broken and our prayers and deepest sympathy go out to the family," said a statement from the Texas Panhandle Heritage Foundation, which puts on the show.
Lindsey Miller, the head of sales and marketing for the foundation, said this season was Trueblood's first with the show.
"She (was) doing what she loved the most as a technician and stage manager, pursuing her passion," Miller said. "She was a very magnetic and sweet girl."
In 2013, five members of the "TEXAS" cast were killed in an auto accident while returning from a cast party at a ranch near Dumas.
You are currently Signed In
