South Africa tour of Bangladesh, 2015
Live Cricket Score of Bangladesh vs South Africa, 2nd Test, Day 3 at Dhaka     : Third day's play washed out #BanvSA
Last updated on  Saturday, 01 August, 2015, 10:08 IST
Text Size
Stumps : Play called off
Oh dear! Play has been called off for the second successive day. Just when it looked like it was clear and we were going to start, the rain came back again. In minutes, it turned to a full-fledged downpour.
Two days lost and only two days left now. Can we dare to hope there will be play tomorrow?
Update : Positive news
Update : Inspection soon
Some good news from Mirpur.Umpires will have an inspection at 13h30 local time. If all clear & no further rain, play to start soon. #BanvSA
Situation : Four hours, OMG!
Goodness me...we could be playing in about four hours...if the rain stays away. pic.twitter.com/TXGEw1Usx3
Update :
Well, well...what do we have here - the rain has stopped! For the moment at least! However, it would still take a lot of time for Operation Clean-up!
Weather update : Not promising at all!
Build-up :
Incessant rain forced the umpires to abandon the play on day 2. Cyclone Komen had hit and given way to heavy rains. The teams did not even leave their hotels. With the rain not abating, the umpires did not have any other choice than calling the day's play off.
As things stood at the end of first day, South Africa are slightly ahead, having taken eight Bangladeshi wickets. 248 is not a huge score and the visitors would like to clean up the tail as soon as possible.
Check out our day 1 live blog if you have forgotten how things stand at the moment. Meanwhile, we will wait for news from Dhaka.
 Cricbuzz
INCREDIBLE TREBLE: Shahid Afridi smashed 4 sixes during his 22-ball 45, but it was Anwar Ali's astonishing... view
ON THE CUSP OF TREBLE: A 2-0 finish in the T20 series will be icing on the cake for Pakistan, who have... view
COMMANDING VICTORY: Ian Bell's twin fifties, Johnson getting flustered thanks to the Barmy Army, Steven... view
Mobile Site & Apps
