Aug 1, 2015, 12:54 PM ET
Jim Spellman/Getty Images
Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston , was memorialized by friends and family at a funeral in Alpharetta, Georgia on Saturday.
The funeral was held at the Saint James United Methodist Church , where her aunt, Pat Houston, is a member, according to ABC affiliate WSB-TV in Atlanta.
The hearse was escorted into the parking lot by two policemen on motorcycles, according to the Associated Press. Four men then carried the coffin into the church, the AP said.
Mourners arrived in three stretch limousines escorted by police motorcycles, according to the AP. A procession of dozens of cars followed.
Brown's father, Bobby Brown, and maternal grandmother, Cissy Houston, were among the family members on hand to mourn the aspiring performer, who died on July 26 at the age of 22.
Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed , R&B singer Monica and cousin Jerod Brown were also seen at the church.
Brown will be buried Monday, next to her mother, in Westfield, New Jersey.
Paras Griffin/Getty Images
PHOTO: Singer Monica arrives at Bobbi Kristina Brown's funeral at St. James United Methodist Church in Alpharetta, Ga., Aug. 1, 2015.
Brown was hospitalized January 31 after she was found unresponsive in a bathtub inside her Roswell, Georgia, home. Several weeks later, Cissy Houston said that her granddaughter, who by then had been moved to a rehab facility, had "global and irreversible brain damage."
"[There's] still not a great deal of hope," she told radio station WBLS 107.5 in March. "If he works a miracle, thank God. If it happens the other way, I'm all right."
In June, Brown was moved to hospice care. A month later, she died, surrounded by her family.
"Krissy was and is an angel," Bobby Brown said in a statement to ABC News. "My family must find a way to live with her in spirit and honor her memory. Our loss is unimaginable. We thank everyone for the prayers for Krissy and our family as we mourn my baby girl."
The initial part of the autopsy for Brown did not reveal an obvious cause of death and showed no significant injuries. The Fulton County Medical Examiner will perform additional laboratory testing. The circumstances surrounding her death are still under investigation, according to the Fulton County district attorney.
Join the Discussion
1
Paula French/AP Photo
Julio Cortez/AP Photo
