July 28, 2015
OSAKA--Osaka University scientists said they fired the world's most powerful laser beam.
It instantaneously concentrated energy equivalent to 1,000 times the world's electricity consumption and entered the record books as the most powerful laser beam ever emitted, the researchers said on July 27.
Although the energy of the laser beam itself was only powerful enough to run a microwave for about two seconds, the team was able to attain the massive output by concentrating the power to 1 pico-second, or one-trillionth of a second.
The team at the university's Institute of Laser Engineering emitted a 2-petawatt, or 2 quadrillion-watt, laser beam using the huge "LFEX" (Laser for Fast Ignition Experiments).
The LFEX is about 100 meters long, including the observation apparatus. The four set of devices to amplify the laser beam were completed at the end of last year.
In the experiment, energy was applied to special glass using devices that were basically lamps resembling ordinary fluorescent tubes, repeatedly amplifying the power of the beam.
The team held experiments continuously and confirmed this month that a record has been achieved.
"With heated competition in the world to improve the performance of lasers, our goal now is to increase our output to 10 petawatts," said the institute's Junji Kawanaka, an associate professor of electrical engineering at the university.
By TATSUYUKI KOBORI/ Staff Writer
UJI, Kyoto Prefecture--An airborne drone activated sensors at ground level using wireless power transfer technology that could help locate people stranded or lost during a disaster.
Liquid crystal display manufacturer Japan Display Inc. unveiled an improved reflective-type color LCD that it says is 100 times more efficient than conventional models.
OSAKA--Sharp Corp. plans to mass-produce highly transparent liquid crystal displays that can show color images, the struggling Osaka-based electronics company said.
May 27, 2015
Teijin Ltd. said it will begin sales June 1 of the PaperBeacon, the worlds first surface-based authentication sheet that allows the sharing of information to specified users with smartphones or tablets in a group setting.
Electronics giant Hitachi Ltd. said it developed a massive transmission electron microscope with record-breaking resolution powers that allow scientists to peer even deeper into the world at the atomic level.


