Dismiss
Attention
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
Search Form
Bangladesh opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party leader Salauddin Quader Chowdhury, shown in an October 2013 file photo, heard a ruling Wednesday July 29, 2015 from the Supreme Court of Bangladesh upholding the death penalty for him. The ruling clears the way for his execution unless he gets presidential clemency.
Nationalist Party leader Salauddin Quader Chowdhury was convicted in 2013 on charges including four counts of genocide
July 29, 2015 2:45AM ET
Share Link Embed in Website
The Supreme Court of Bangladesh on Wednesday upheld the death sentence for an influential opposition leader and an aide to a former prime minister for his role in mass killings during the country's independence war against Pakistan in 1971.
Chief Justice S.K. Sinha delivered the verdict against Bangladesh Nationalist Party leader Salauddin Quader Chowdhury, a former aide to ex-Prime Minister Khaleda Zia.
The ruling clears the way for the man's execution unless he gets presidential clemency.
Chowdhury was convicted in 2013 on nine of 23 charges, including four counts of genocide. He was found guilty of aiding and ordering the killings of at least 200 people, mostly minority Hindus, in the southeastern Chittagong region. He was later elected as the region's representative to parliament six times.
Bangladesh says Pakistani soldiers, aided by local collaborators, killed 3 million people and raped 200,000 women during the nine-month war that ended in December 1971.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina set up the tribunal in 2010 to punish the collaborators. More than 15 people have been convicted to death or life in prison and two senior leaders from the main Islamist party Jamaat-e-Islami have been executed.
Jamaat-e-Islami is allied to Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist Party and boycotted the 2014 general elections while criticizing the war crimes trials. The party had openly campaigned against Bangladesh's independence and formed militias to prevent it from breaking away from Pakistan.
The Associated Press
Go
Sign up for our weekly newsletter
Submit
Sign up for our weekly newsletter
Submit

Dismiss
Error
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Accept
