By Abby Ohlheiser
Washington Post
WASHINGTON  An anti-abortion group that has said it has proof that Planned Parenthood sells fetal tissues for profit this week released a fourth video, featuring undercover footage of a Planned Parenthood employee discussing the details of fetal parts, and worries about the perception of that process.
The video comes as Planned Parenthood and its opponents battle over the organizations future in Congress, in the courts and even on the womens health organizations own website.
The video was recorded in April, according to the Center for Medical Progress, with actors posing as representatives of an out-of-state company that procures fetal parts for researchers.
The CMP identifies the Planned Parenthood official as Savita Ginde, vice president and medical director of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains. In the video, the group discusses a potential contract for fetal parts.
Ginde, among other things, discusses worries that Planned Parenthoods fetal tissue program will be perceived as selling fetal parts across states, and what the consequences would be if antis got a hold of information about a specimen procurement program similar to the one proposed by the activists.
The Planned Parenthood affiliate for which Ginde works says it declined to move forward with the proposal outlined in the footage, in which actors said they represented the company BioMax.
PPRM determined we would not enter into a contract proposed by BioMax because they did not meet our legal and ethical standards, Vicki Cowart, CEO of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains, said in an statement emailed after the edited videos release.
In response, CMP did not deny the Planned Parenthood affiliate declined to agree to a final contract, but took issue with Cowarts overall characterization of their exchange. David Daleiden, project lead for the Center for Medical Progress, said in an emailed statement on Thursday afternoon that the last time they communicated with PPRM was July 7, as of which time they were still wanting to enter into a contract.
Daleiden also believes the Planned Parenthood affiliate has no paper trail to prove they rejected the contract.
Their VP and Medical Director wanted to sell body parts badly, he added.
Like the three previous releases from the Center for Medical Progress, the latest video contains accusations of illegal and unethical activity: First, it argues that Planned Parenthood profits from compensation as part of fetal parts donations; and second, that clinics may alter procedures to provide more intact specimens, in violation of established ethical standards for fetal parts collection.
We have to kind of see the baseline of how things are getting extracted now and see if we can do any work with them to maybe be more gentle, Ginde says in the video.
She adds that the clinic has little control over whether specimens come out intact or not, but adds, Sometimes, if we get, if someone delivers before we get to see them for a procedure, then we are intact.
In another portion of the video, the undercover actors are allowed to observe the specimen collection process inside a Planned Parenthood clinic.
Do people do stuff with eyeballs? Ginde asks the undercover actor.
Later, a medical assistant notes that a specimen is another boy.
Previous videos have prompted federal and state investigations of any Planned Parenthood-linked wrongdoing in recent weeks, including in Florida, Texas and Louisiana.
Elected officials need to listen to the public outcry for an immediate moratorium on Planned Parenthoods taxpayer funding while the 10 state investigations and 3 congressional committees determine the full extent of Planned Parenthoods sale of baby parts, Daleiden, project lead for the Center for Medical Progress, said in a statement Thursday.
Planned Parenthood said this week that it wanted the National Institutes of Health to conduct an independent study of fetal parts research, a request Daleiden called absurd because research cant be used as a catch-all term. He added: The biggest problem is bad actors like Planned Parenthood who hold themselves above the law in order to harvest and make money off of aborted fetal brains, hearts and livers.
Planned Parenthoods Cowart defended the organization in response to the recent video.
We have and will always follow all laws, and patients are always our highest priority, Cowart said Thursday. The accusations being made in connection to this heavily edited video are false.
The fourth video comes days after a dispute over CMPs video stings ended up in the California courts, where a judge issued a temporary restraining order preventing the release of any videos showing officials from StemExpress, a California biomedical company. And while that court order was coming down Tuesday in the Los Angeles Superior Court, Planned Parenthood was condemning a recent string of alleged hacking attempts targeting the organizations own Web site.
The videos are largely responsible for reenergizing longtime antiabortion advocates who believe that the government should cut all funding to Planned Parenthood. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R, has pledged to bring a vote on the matter to the Senate floor before the August recess.
CMP posted a transcript of a longer version of the conversation online, following the release of the video, and said it was uploading the full version of the conversation to YouTube.
Rules for posting comments
Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper.This is a public forum.
Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so. Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.
IP and email addresses of persons who post are not treated as confidential records and will be disclosed in response to valid legal process.
Do not post:
Obscene, explicit, or racist language.
Copyrighted materials of any sort without the express permission of the copyright holder.
Personal attacks, insults or threats.
The use of another person's real name to disguise your identity.
Comments unrelated to the story.

