Clubhouse Insider Boston Red Sox News
Travis Shaw stars as Red Sox beat Rays 11-7
The Associated Press
Travis Shaw follows through on his second home run of the game Saturday. (AP Photo/Winslow Townson)
1
After the 10th and by far best game of his big-league career yesterday, Travis Shaw had little clue for why he was so hot at the plate.
But he, the Red Sox and fans still watching the Red Sox enjoyed his 4-for-4 outing to the hilt in the 11-7 victory over the Rays.
No reason  just trying to stick with my approach and not try to do too much out there today, said Shaw, who hit the first two home runs of his big-league career and also scored five times. Obviously once you get a couple of hits, your confidence level gets going a little bit and you start feeling good about yourself and I was able to carry that through the whole game.
Shaw was not the only Red Sox to have a big game at the plate. Xander Bogaerts went 4-for-5 with three RBI, and Rusney Castillo went 3-for-4 with three RBI.
The Red Sox had 16 hits. In their last seven games the club has hit .332 (84-for-253), with 24 extra-base hits. They have also scored 51 runs in this seven-game span, their highest runs total since scoring 66 runs in one week in September of 2013.
We've been swinging the bat after the road trip in LA and Houston where we saw a lot of good pitching. We've come to life here and we're getting contributions up and down the lineup, said manager John Farrell. Whether it's guys who are stepping in for the first time, such as Travis today or what Bogey continues to do. We're watching a guy blossom into his own right in front of our eyes. It's multiple hit games. He's right in the middle of it. David's (Ortiz) swinging the bat much better not only in this past week but certainly over a stretch of time. Guys are hitting their stride a little bit.
Bogaerts tied Carl Yastrzemski for the most four-hit games (six) by a Red Sox prior to turning 23 years old dating back to 1914. Only Ted Williams, who had eight, has more.
Bogaerts leads the league with a .391 batting average with runners in scoring position.
The Red Sox have now won three games in a row after losing three in a row. They are now 27-27 at home this season.
Castillo's three hits were a career high. One was a key two-run single in the sixth that expanded the Red Sox' lead from 7-6 to 9-6.
Author(s):
Welcome to our new commenting system
Welcome to our new Facebook commenting system. Our goal is to create a meaningful environment where it is simple to comment on our pages and, if you'd like, share that comment with your friends.
 Copyright by the Boston Herald and Herald Media.
No portion of BostonHerald.com or its content may be reproduced without the owner's written permission.
