A man washes his face to cool off during a warm summer day in Baghdad on July 30, 2015. The weather is even hotter in neighbouring Iran as a searing heat wave continues to scorch the region.
Some parts of the United States may be experiencing an uncomfortable heat wave with temperatures reaching over 90 degrees Fahrenheit, but in Iran, the temperature is even hotter, reaching up to a searing 115 degrees Fahrenheit (46 Celsius) in the city of Bandar Mahshahr, which is located on the coast of the Persian Gulf. The city has a population of over 110,000 people.
With humidity factored in, the temperature actually reached a sizzling 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 Celsius) last Friday at 4:30 p.m. local time.
This figure is said to be the second highest temperature ever recorded in the entire world, according to AccuWeather meteorologist Anthony Sagliani.
"That was one of the most incredible temperature observations I have ever seen, and it is one of the most extreme readings ever in the world," Sagliani said in a statement.
The highest temperature on record is 178 degrees (81 Celsius), observed in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, on July 8, 2003.
A day before this almost record-breaking heat, the temperature in Bandar Mahshahr already soared to 159 degrees (70 Celsius).
Geography has a lot to do with the intense temperature being experienced in the Iranian city. Bandar Mahshahr is in southwest Iran, adjacent to the Persian Gulf. Water temperature in the gulf is already reaching 90 degrees. This high water temperature brings intense humidity in nearby areas.
Sagliani further explained that a strong ridge of high pressure is currently affecting parts of the Middle East, which is expected to stay there until early August.
"The ridge of high pressure will remain in place across the Middle East through at least the next week, so more oppressive heat and humidity, and more astounding apparent temperatures, are likely through the next several days," Sagliani said.
More News in World
While celebrities and politicians were quick to condemn the shooting of Cecil The Lion, activists from several groups decried their lack of sympathy for the African-American people who lost their lives due to racial discrimination in U.S.
RECOMMENDED STORIES
AROUND THE WORLD
Related news
Most popular
MORE ON CHRISTIAN TODAY
