Set Your Location (Enter City and State or Zip Code)
Congratulations!
Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.
AccuWeather.com Quick Look
Don't have an account?
Favorite Schools
comments
MLB trade deadline: Follow the latest news and rumors on Carlos Carrasco, Justin Upton and more
CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The non-waiver trade deadline buzzer has sounded. While deals canstill be officially announced, it appears much of the activity has passed.
The Royals, Blue Jays and Mets were among the notable teams that took an aggressive approach in pursuit of a playoff spot. The Padres, a team many expected to unload some of their soon-to-be free agents, didn't become sellers.
The Indians, after dealing David Murphy and Brandon Moss in the days prior, heldon to Carlos Carrasco despite receiving numerous inquiries.
Here is a recap of the news and rumors today:
4:30 p.m.:
The Indians have made a late move, according to ESPN's Keith Law.
Padres picked up Rzepcynski from Cleveland for Almonte
3:54 p.m.:
And now Yoenis Cespedes' new team has been identified.
The Mets missed out on Jay Bruce and Carlos Gomez, but they are getting the much-needed slugger they have been coveting to help support their dominant pitching staff.
Cespedes is batting .293 to go with 18 home runs and 61 RBI. Eight of his homers have come in the month of July.
Source: #Mets get Cespedes. Bruce Levine first.
cespedes goes to mets for two minor leaguers
#Tigers acquire RHPs Michael Fulmer and Luis Cessa from #Mets for Cespedes, source confirms.
3:46 p.m.:
Good news, Indians fans. It appears, if Yoenis Cespedes gets traded, he won't be staying in the AL Central.
The #Whitesox were aggressive, but fell short, and now out of #Tigers Cespedes sweepstakes
3:33 p.m.:
It's looking more likely that the Indians will hang on to Carrasco despite plenty of interest from contenders.
Exec when asked if #Indians will move Carrasco: "Don't believe so."
3:24 p.m.:
There's still time left, but the underachieving Padres still haven't unloaded their big pieces. Will they find a trade partner before the 4:00 buzzer? ESPN's Jerry Crasnick doesn't believe they will when it comes to their All-Star outfielder who will be a free agent at the end of the season.
All indications are the #Padres have nothing happening on Justin Upton. It appears he's staying put at deadline.
3:21 p.m.:
Could it be a precursor to a trade?
The Reds, playing Pittsburgh tonight, do not have trade target Jay Bruce in the lineup, according to Fox Sports. The Pirates' pitcher, however, is a lefty, which could have something to do with the decision. We will know for sure soon.
2:53 p.m.:
The trade season has been dominated by the Blue Jays and they aren't slowing down. One of the best offenses in the majors is adding another piece -- speedy Ben Revere, according to numerous reports.
Confirming what others have reported: Revere deal between #Phillies and #BlueJays agreed upon. Teams just reviewing medicals.
2:11 p.m.:
The interest is picking up for Detroit masher Yoenis Cespedes as the Tigers continue to retool a roster that has disappointed this season.
#Mets still discussing Yoenis Cespedes with the #Tigers , sources say.
#Angels have talked with #Tigers on Yoenis Cespedes, sources say.
2:05 p.m.:
Some rumors make sense. Others are baffling. Perhaps the Red Sox are thinking more toward the future, but reports indicate the 45-win team has set its sights on Carrasco.
Note: JBJ refers to Sox outfielder Jackie Bradley Jr., a 25-year-old outfielder.
Two hours before trading deadline, Red Sox efforts focused on Carrasco or Ross. JBJ could be going
1:58 p.m.:
It looked like the Rockies entered full rebuild mode, especially after sending Troy Tulowitzki to the Blue Jays. But, while it looked possible before 4 p.m., Colorado is not interested in trading one of their other star players.
In important Stuff That's Not Happening news, #Rockies are telling teams they'll revisit moving Carlos Gonzalez next month - or next winter
1:48 p.m.:
Count the Miami Marlins as another team showing interest in Carrasco, according to CBS Sports. Our Paul Hoynes reported a few days ago that a package centered on Marcell Ozuna would make sense for both sides.
"Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported that the Marlins aren't shopping Ozuna, but the Indians and several other clubs have called the Marlins about him.
Ozuna, 24, hit .269 (152-for-565) last year with 26 doubles, 23 homers and 85 RBI. He's played 79 games with the Marlins this year, hitting .249 (74-for-297) with four homers and 26 RBI.
It's also been reported the Miami has sent scouts to check out the Tribe's starting pitchers."
1:25 p.m.:
The Indians aren't in a hurry to move any of their players, but are listening. If a team snags Carrasco it will take strong offer, according to STO Analyst Jensen Lewis.
From people I've spoken with, asking price for Carrasco is still incredibly high. Would take unbelievable offer to move him.
12:07 p.m.:
The clock continues to tick and the Indians continue to receive phone calls.
It's important to note that most of the information points to the Tribe being the team getting calls as opposed to initiating them. But they're still listening, which is what they should do considering the disappointing season and a lack of offense.
Heard Tribe front office still churning, listening to offers. Could go down to wire.
12:01 p.m.:
It was announced a few days ago, but deals aren't official until all physicals are passed, as many learned the other night with the Mets trade that fell apart.
The Rangers have officially acquired front-line starter Cole Hamels from Philadelphia, and the Rangers aren't wasting time before giving him the ball.
Announced: Cole Hamels trade is official. He will start Saturday.
11:56 a.m.:
This trade deadline was supposed to provide an opportunity for the Padres to hold their own firesale, with Justin Upton and Craig Kimbrel being mentioned most frequently. According to ESPN's Buster Olney, San Diego could be on the verge of a large move.
There is some speculation within the industry about a possible BOS/Cubs/Padres three-way blockbuster taking shape. Lots of pieces that fit.
11:54 a.m.:
The Cardinals aren't satisfied with the addition of Moss alone. St. Louis has reportedly acquired an arm for the back end of the bullpen in a move with Milwaukee.
Jonathan Broxton going to #STLCards in a trade.
11:30 a.m.:
Even though the Brewers and Orioles have reportedly agreed to a deal for Gerardo Parra, Baltimore may not be done in its quest to acquire more pop to the lineup.
The Orioles could still make a Yoenis Cespedes deal work, even after getting Gerardo Parra.
10:58 a.m.:
The Dodgers were thought to have interest in David Price and Cole Hamels. But Price went to Toronto while Hamels is bound for Texas. That leaves the Dodgers in search of another arm for their rotation. Already with Clayton Kershaw and Zack Greinke, the Dodgers have set their sights on Yovani Gallardo, who is 7-9 with a 3.39 ERA.
Dodgers in ongoing trade talks with Rangers on Yovani Gallardo this morning, source says.
10:51 a.m.:
No longer in Milwaukee, where he played five and a half years,Carlos Gomez chose Instagram as a way to thank his former club.
Jul 30, 2015 at 10:09pm PDT
10:34 a.m.:
The rumors continue to swirl around Indians' hurler Carlos Carrasco, with the Chicago Cubs said to have interest. Curious what kind of farm system the Cubs have? MLB.com lists their top 30 prospects , three of which are in the top 50 overall. They also have promising young shortstop Starlin Castro, and his name continues to pop up in trade rumblings .
10:30 a.m.:
The Brewers have already traded away one outfield bat, sending Carlos Gomez to the Houston Astros on Thursday. It appears they could be on the verge of moving another, Gerardo Parra.
Source: #Orioles closing in on #Brewers ' Parra. Deal expected to be Parra for RHP Zack Davies, straight up.
10:26 a.m.:
The Arizona Diamondbacks have made an offer to the Reds for closer Aroldis Chapman, according to numerous reports .Chapman, who has a 1.65 ERA and 21 saves this year, could also receive interest from the Astros, Giants and Yankees.
10:19 a.m.:
There are plenty of quality names available. Sluggers Justin Upton and Yoenis Cespedes highlight the available bats. While a pair of closers, Craig Kimbrel and Aroldis Chapman, should generate interest as well. ESPN.com has a list of ten things to watch.
10:08 a.m.:
On Wednesday night, the Mets backed out of a trade that would've netted them outfielder Carlos Gomez. Still in search of an offensive boost, they have reportedly honed in on another option, Cincinnati's Jay Bruce.
#Mets and #Reds doing due diligence on Zack Wheeler and Jay Bruce. Pretty far along. Don't know if another player would be involved.
10:04 a.m.:
The Blue Jays have taken a bold approach despite their third place standing in the AL East. They've already acquired shortstop Troy Tulowitzki and David Price, thought to be the only true ace available. Now, they are looking for more help to boost the starting rotation.
#BlueJays haven't given up on Carlos Carrasco. Source says they're among a "slew of teams" talking to #Indians about him. #Dodgers #Cubs

optional
Check here if you do not want to receive additional email offers and information.
Thank you for your subscription
We look forward to sharing with you some of the great content found on cleveland.com.   To view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters, please click here .
Best of cleveland.com
 2015 Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,             except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.
