Bob Sturm: Why Cowboys need an innings eater at running back
August 1, 2015 9:37 pm
Dallas Cowboys running back Joseph Randle (21) runs through a drill during Dallas Cowboys minicamp at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, on Wednesday, June 17, 2015. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)
Special contributor Bob Sturm answered questions in a chat Friday. Here are some highlights.
Related
Question: The nagging injury tag McFadden carries into camp concerns me. As teams get further into roster cuts, can you see the Cowboys adding a RB? Of the potential RB cuts out there, who would be the best fit for the Cowboys?
Bob Sturm: I am not here to sound any alarms on McFadden, but if you read me, you know my bar of expectation for him this season is not overly optimistic. I do think that the Cowboys could use another body in here, but I also think that is likely 1-2 weeks away. I think they just need a horse. A guy who we know can handle the workload and that is my concern with Randle. We have not seen him get 12-16 carries a game and dont know how he can handle that work load. To steal a baseball term, they need an innings eater back there.
Question: Other than RB. What do you think the most important position battle is this year at TC?
Bob Sturm: For me, sorting out the LB situation is well worth our time. I was watching them yesterday afternoon at practice and plan on writing something lengthy over the weekend. But, they have many bodies, decent quality, and 3 spots to fill. As it stands right now, they want Sean Lee at the Will. With Rolando McClain out of service for September, then it falls to either Anthony Hitchens or Jasper Brinkley to play the Mike. That puts Kyle Wilber or Anthony Hitchens at the Sam as I can figure it. Wilson, the 4th rounder from Minnesota is working into the mix, too. But, LB is where you have the most options, because someone like Hitchens could be in any of 3 spots.
Question: With McFadden on the PUP list why not bring Chris Johnson in just for the heck of it? I mean you never know what if he is back to the way he used to be with the Titans? I just dont think it would hurt to take a look. What are you thoughts?
Bob Sturm: I think they try to avoid telling the current roster that they are not good enough until enough evidence emerges on its own. They generally like to keep the try out guys to a minimum early, see where they are, and then decide. But, Steven Jackson, Chris Johnson, and even Ray Rice will continue to have names that hang in the ether until they are either signed somewhere or the current Cowboys crew looks so seamless that there is no need to consider an alternative. Things happen in camp that change things from day to day, but usually, objective #1 for these guys is to see what they got in camp.
Comments
To post a comment, log into your chosen social network and then add your comment below. Your comments are subject to our Terms of Service and the privacy policy and terms of service of your social network. If you do not want to comment with a social network, please consider writing a letter to the editor.
Ad:TopLeftBlog
Most Recent Blogs
Categories
Mobile
Mobile
Listen live to 1310 The Ticket radio station. Fast forward, pause and rewind up to 20 minutes and read up-to-the-minute news on your favorite teams.
Get the latest high school sports news, scores, stats, schedules, standings, photos and more for your school on the SportsDayHS smartphone app.
Ad: Position3
Ad: Position4
