stephanie mcmahon/eric bischoff kiss - Wrestling Forum : WWE, TNA, Indy Wrestling, Debate League, Women of Wrestling Forums
Google search
VB search
stephanie mcmahon/eric bischoff kiss
watching old stuff and have always wondered, does anyone know the story with this? it seemed pretty random, was it supposed to lead somewhere? what was the point of it? it seems strange hhh vetoed Jericho and Stephanie but accepted eric bischoff kissing her.
Last edited by cainkopeland; Yesterday at 11:47 AM.
cainkopeland is offline 

My Guess
Jericho was never important in that short term angle to begin with whereas Eric/Steph was just adding a layer of intrigue to the Brand Split angle, feeding fire to the flames, long term storytelling, before Smackdown started getting the shaft
FORGIVE ME IF I DON'T GET BACK TO YOUR RESPONSE TO ME RIGHT AWAY, I JUST GO WITH WHAT THE WF NOTIFICATION SYSTEM BRINGS TO MY ATTENTION, SUCH A TIME SAVER
Quote:
For Goldberg, any company that is willing to pay him shitton of money he wants is relevant. Make no mistake about it, he's all about money.
Quote:
TNA are the ones that forbade their own fans from chanting what they want and called them "Cast members."
Quote:
Originally Posted by Berzerker's Beard View Post
The WWE has become nothing more than a giant commercial for itself.
There is no story. There are no feuds. There are no angles. There are no developments. Just apps. Just DVD's. Just their latest press event. Just toys. Just merchandise. Just the next PPV.
Greatsthegreats is offline 

Quote:
My Guess
Jericho was never important in that short term angle to begin with whereas Eric/Steph was just adding a layer of intrigue to the Brand Split angle, feeding fire to the flames, long term storytelling, before Smackdown started getting the shaft
Exactly. Remember this was back when wwe actually cared about there product
Re: stephanie mcmahon/eric bischoff kiss
confused with what you mean Jericho wasn't important, it was the main event of wrestlemania, apologies if I misunderstood what you meant
cainkopeland is offline 


Re: stephanie mcmahon/eric bischoff kiss
What a lucky man Uncle Eric was back then. Steph was in her prime.


Quote:
What a lucky man Uncle Eric was back then. Steph was in her prime.
Heh, Uncle Eric sounds so deliciously creepy in this context!
At the risk of summoning Thanks12, I have to agree about Stephanie in that era - she lost so much sex appeal when she returned as an poorly cast babyface in 2002/3. I remember her coming back after a long absence, receiving major heel heat because she was so thoroughly dislikeable, and confusing everyone by cutting a benevolent leader babyface promo.
-
It lead to Stephanie make Bischoff choke on his nuts


It was disgusting.
"Ive made a career and life out of proving people wrong and making people eat their words."
"I don't need to lose any weight, don't need to save money, or be a better person. That's a lost cause anyway"
Black Widow is offline 


Re: stephanie mcmahon/eric bischoff kiss
Did Eric kiss Linda too? I always thought something would come out of it. Like HHH kicking his ass or something.
MasterGoGo is offline 
Quote:
Did Eric kiss Linda too?
Stephanie
Linda
Vince's ass
The only McMahon family member that Bischoff didn't kiss in his time as GM was Shane McMahon.
Nightrow is offline 
Posting Rules
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
168
4k
2k
30
4k
736
3k
324

For the best viewing experience please update your browser to Google Chrome
