More
More
Times points
HI,
RELATED ARTICLES
The author has posted comments on this article
BHAVNA VIJ AURORA , ET Bureau | Jul 13, 2015, 12.14PM IST
Page 1  of 4
NEW DELHI: Booth jeetenge to chunav jeetenge (winning booths will win polls)  that's the tagline for the Bharatiya Janata Party's Bihar assembly election campaign that will be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Muzaffarpur on July 25.
The party has prepared a painstakingly detailed ground campaign down to the block, panchayat and booth level  to ensure that it engages with as many voters as it can ahead of the crucial polls later this year.
"A detailed plan of the campaign is already in place100 days, one lakh sabhas and contact with one crore voters, this is the focus of the campaign," a key party member told ET. The Vikas Kranti Yatra will see extensive use of technology along with traditional door-to-door canvassing.
Party president Amit Shah does not want to leave anything to chance and is closely supervising preparations. After the Delhi debaclewhere it won just three out of 70 seatsthis is a must-win election for the BJP.
Chief minister Nitish Kumar, a former BJP ally and now its main rival, has already embarked on his Har Ghar Dastak mass contact programme, meeting people in their homes and asking them about his government's performance. The BJP is meanwhile taking extra care to avoid characterising the campaign as a 'Modi versus Kumar' fight. It's also banking on those who have broken away from the Nitish Kumar-Lalu Prasad foldformer chief minister  Jitan Ram Manjhi and Pappu Yadav, respectively-to win support.
CASTE VS DEVELOPMENT
Will the BJP be able to draw ahead of its rivals? Salil Mishra, a professor at  Ambedkar University in New Delhi who tracks Bihar politics closely, isn't quite convinced.
"BJP's best hope would have been social re-engineering and this does not seem to have happened. The same old caste equations continue to be a factor. Also, absence of leadership projection is going to hurt them," Mishra said. However, he is of the view that Modi continues to retain some of his appeal among the youth, owing to his development-oriented agenda.
This is what the BJP plans to take to the voters. The aim is to have at least 500 sabhas (meetings) in each of the 243 assembly constituencies in 100 days. "Each and every bazaar (market), mandir, masjid and mandi will be covered," said the party member cited above. The party has created a database of all 62,779 booths with details of voters in terms of background, education, caste and religion.
"There are 9,302 booths where the margin of victory was around 50 votes in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. These are the swing booths and our aim is to increase 100 votes for the BJP here through jan sampark (public engagement) and door-to-door campaigns," said a state party member.
'SUSTAINED MESSAGING'
There's a shift from the hitech holograms of Modi used in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Video vans will spread the party message through promotional films and songs. "The focus is not on one-time bombardment but on sustained messaging and contact with the people. The holograms and 3-D images have anyway lost their novelty value," said the person cited above.
The BJP has readied 243 video vans with GPS tracking, 55-inch TV screens and audio systems. They will also carry publicity material for distribution, including 'samarthak' stickers bearing the message "Sashakta Bhajapa, Sashakta Bharat (Strong BJP, Stong India)" and booth posters with the slogan "Abki Baar, Bhajapa Sarkaar' apart from pamphlets and lotus (the party symbol) badges.
Each rath will have a daily schedule of four to five sabhas with a total of 1,000-1,200 such meetings to be held all over the state. "The aim is for each video van is to cover one panchayat area in one day and then return to the same area after a month with a new promotional video. After the meeting, the publicity material in the van will be distributed to the supporters," said the state leader cited above.
In case there's a problem, the call centre coordinating the movement of all the vans will make alternate arrangements. "Everything has been planned to the last detail," said the BJP member. "The party is depending on meticulous planning, organisation and coordination."
Recent Messages ()
Be the first one to review.
We have sent you a verification email. To verify, just follow the link in the message
THE TIMES OF INDIA
Powered by INDIATIMES
