By Glenn McEntyre Friday July 31, 2015 4:44 PM
UPDATED: Friday July 31, 2015 8:53 PM
COLUMBUS, Ohio -
A 7-year-old girl from Columbus was found dead after being reported missing for three days in southern California. The man who was looking after her has been charged in her death.
Annie Lee Palmer disappeared while swimming on Tuesday in a canal in Niland, California.
Search crews recovered her body Thursday. Authorities in California have not released the name of the little girl who drowned, but her father's family tells 10TV they've been informed of her death.
A tiny girl with a big personality - that's how Freddie Palmer describes his daughter Annie Lee Palmer; or as he affectionately calls her, "Sweet Pea, Sweet Pea Annie.
Freddie says Annie and her older sister Jessica had traveled from Columbus to spend the summer with their grandmother in California. On Wednesday, he got a phone call that Annie had disappeared while swimming in the Coachella Canal.
On Thursday, he says there was another call, with even worse news: Annie's body had been recovered from the canal.
"I was ready to explode, Palmer said. Not my little girl."
Police have charged 57-year-old Heinrich Boykins with child endangering and voluntary manslaughter. Palmer says Boykins is the husband of the girls' grandmother.
He has questions for both.
"Sorry - that's all I (was told.) I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Sorry (is) not going to bring her back. What's the use of being sorry? You should have been watching them."
Now, instead of preparing his daughter for third grade, he's preparing himself to say goodbye. "I don't know what to do with myself. I (have to) bury my daughter? That's sad. That's pitiful."
Investigators with the Imperial County Sheriff's Office are not elaborating on the charges against Boykin, but say it is extremely dangerous and illegal to swim in those canals.
Boykins remains in custody.
2015 by 10TV.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Currently in Columbus
WBNS-TVs on-line public inspection file can be found on the FCC website at 10tv.com/fcc . Individuals with disabilities may contact Becky Richey at pubfile@10tv.com or 614.460.3785 for assistance with access to the WBNS-TV public inspection files.
Copyright 2015, WBNS-TV, Inc. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please      read our Privacy Policy, About Our Ads and Terms of Service. It is the policy of The Dispatch Broadcast      Group to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified individuals without regard to      their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, martial status, disability, military status,      citizenship or any other legally-protected status in accordance with applicable local, state and federal law.
