BOSTON  Aug 1, 2015, 9:11 PM ET
By KEN POWTAK Associated Press
Travis Shaw's teammates teased him about going for the cycle in his last at-bat. He finished with an even better hit by belting his second homer of the day.
Shaw hit his first two major league homers and went 4-for-4 with five runs scored and four RBIs to lead the Boston Red Sox past the Tampa Bay Rays 11-7 on Saturday.
"It's in your head," he said. "Everybody's talking about it. If you hit the ball in the gap, everybody's like: 'don't stop running.' I'll take the homer."
Shaw had a double in his first at-bat, homered in the second and singled in the third on a day he didn't even know if he'd be in the lineup. He was in for third baseman Pablo Sandoval, who was sidelined with a bruised left forearm after getting hit by a pitch on Thursday.
"He got the word yesterday," manager John Farrell said of Shaw being recalled. "He was unsure if he'd play third base until this morning."
Xander Bogaerts had four hits and three RBIs, and Rusney Castillo three hits with three RBIs for the Red Sox, who their third straight after losing 12 of 14.
After the game, the Red Sox said in an email that president and CEO Larry Lucchino would be stepping down this year. A spokesman for the team said Lucchino hopes to remain with the club in some capacity.
Logan Forsythe hit a solo homer and two-run single for the Rays, who have lost five of seven.
Joe Kelly (3-6), demoted to the minors in late June for nearly a month, gave up five runs on nine hits in five-plus innings for his first victory since June 6.
"Good thing I had a lot of offense today and the team picked me up," Kelly said.
Jean Machi earned a save in his Red Sox debut, getting the final four outs.
After having their six-run lead sliced to one, the Red Sox scored two runs on one hit in the sixth against reliever Steve Geltz. Castillo had a two-run single that made it 9-6, with Shaw making a nice slide by tapping the plate with his hand despite the throwing beating him.
The Red Sox built a 6-0 edge after three innings against starter Matt Moore (1-3).
Leading 1-0 in the second, they scored four on Castillo's RBI double, Brock Holt's sacrifice fly and Bogaerts' two-run double.
Shaw homered over the Rays' bullpen, making it 6-0 in the third. His second  a two-run shot  went into the center-field bleachers in the eighth.
Moore, making sixth start since returning from Tommy John surgery in April 2014, gave up six runs in three innings. He's failed to go past five innings since his return.
"It's not fun right now, but I still believe in myself," Moore said. "I feel like when I was out there competing that that wasn't being timid."
The Rays crept back with two runs in both the fourth and fifth, but their bullpen couldn't hold down the Red Sox.
"We do such a good job of being efficient," manager Kevin Cash said. "We weren't today."
But Bogaerts' RBI single made it 7-4.
The Rays then cut it to 7-6 on Kevin Kiermaier's RBI single and pinch-hitter Brandon Guyer's run-scoring double. Guyer's hit would have tied it but Kiermaier was caught trying to steal third.
Forsythe's single came in the fourth. Evan Longoria and James Loney each had RBI singles.
TRAINER'S ROOM
1
Paula French/AP Photo
Julio Cortez/AP Photo
