Jul 31 2015 10:52 pm Jul 31 11:01 pm
The March 2016 target date for re-opening the Carlsbad, New Mexico, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant is no longer viable, but Energy Department officials are still aiming for a date in 2016 that has not yet been announced.
The pilot plant, or WIPP, routinely accepted shipments of transuranic waste from the Savannah River Site and other facilities. The waste form is solid waste consisting of clothing, tools, rags, residues, debris and other items contaminated with plutonium. Operations at the WIPP were put on hold after workers were exposed to radiation during an incident in February 2014. Overall, 22 workers were exposed, including 13 who were treated for smoke inhalation during a fire. The incident was defined as a human error.
According to Mark Whitney, acting assistant secretary for environmental management, WIPP recovery has been significant but the projected opening date will have to be pushed back.
Over the past several months a number of additional activities have been identified that need to be added to the project schedule, including safety-related activities that are required to be completed prior to resumption of operation, Whitney wrote in a notice to colleagues.
He added that DOE is addressing various issues including the findings and recommendations from the Accident Investigation Boards. The Department is also implementing more rigorous standards for site-specific safety, and resolving problems with the contractors oversight of the procurement and quality assurance processes for the manufacture and delivery of the Interim Ventilation System.
In addition, DOE recently completed a review of all WIPP recovery activities to determine if there were efficiencies that could be found to safely maintain the current schedule. Through the review, it was determined that the schedule for resuming operations must be updated.
Dana Bryson, the acting Carlsbad Field Office manager, said the news is disappointing but that its important not to lose sight of the progress that has already been made.
In light of the safety-related activities that must be completed before waste emplacement begins, a new target date for the restart of waste emplacement operations in 2016 must be established, Bryson said.
In 2001, SRS began shipping waste to the facility and has sent 9,551 cubic meters of TRU waste to date, with 617 cubic meters left to ship.
Derrek Asberry is the SRS beat reporter for the Aiken Standard and has been with the paper since June 2013. He is originally from Vidalia, Georgia, and a graduate of Georgia Southern University. Follow him on Twitter @DerrekAsberry.
Keywords
Comments
Notice about comments:
Aiken Standard is pleased to offer readers the enhanced ability to comment on stories. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper. We ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
We do not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the X that appears in the upper right corner when you hover over a comment. This will send the comment to Facebook for review. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our website. Read our full terms and conditions .
Most Popular
All Rights Reserved.
