Exclusive: Walkout at Taliban leadership meeting raises specter of split - AOL.com
JIBRAN AHMAD Jul 31st 2015 1:01PM Comments
At the Taliban meeting this week where Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansour was named as the Islamist militant group's new head, several senior figures in the movement, including the son and brother of late leader Mullah Omar, walked out in protest.
The display of dissent within the group's secretive core is the clearest sign yet of the challenge Mansour faces in uniting a group already split over whether to pursue peace talks with the Afghan government and facing a new, external threat - Islamic State.
Rifts in the Taliban leadership are likely to widen after confirmation this week of the death of elusive founder Omar.
See photos of Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansour:
Mansour, Omar's longtime deputy who has been effectively in charge for years, favors talks to bring an end to more than 13 years of war. He recently sent a delegation to inaugural meetings with Afghan officials hosted by Pakistan , hailed as a breakthrough.
But Mansour, 50, has powerful rivals within the Taliban who oppose negotiations, notably battlefield commander Abdul Qayum Zakir, a former inmate of the U.S. prison in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay.
Zakir is pushing for Mullah Omar's son Yaqoob to take over the movement, and a sizeable faction also supports Yaqoob.
Yaqoob and his uncle Abdul Manan, Omar's younger brother, were among several Taliban figures who walked out of Wednesday's leadership meeting held in the western Pakistani city of Quetta, according to three people who were at the shura, or gathering.
"Actually, it wasn't a Taliban Leadership Council meeting. Mansoor had invited only members of his group to pave the way for his election," said one of the sources, a senior member of Taliban in Quetta.
"And when Yaqoob and Manan noticed this, they left the meeting."
PEACE TALKS IN JEOPARDY
The leadership shura, or gathering, was held outside Quetta, where many Taliban leaders have been based since their hardline regime in Afghanistan was toppled in a 2001 U.S.-led military intervention.
Afghan Taliban leaders have long had sanctuaries in Pakistan, even as Pakistani government officials have denied offering support in recent years.
Mansour leads the Taliban's strongest faction and appears to control most of its spokesmen, websites and statements, said Graeme Smith, senior Afghanistan analyst for the think-tank International Crisis Group.
But some intelligence officials estimate Mansour only directly controls about 40 percent of fighters in the field, he said.
That could make it difficult for him to deliver on any ceasefire that could emerge from future negotiations.
And Taliban insiders say that by sending a three-member delegation to meet Afghan officials in the Pakistani resort of Murree earlier in July, Mansour sparked new criticism.
Especially riled were members of the Taliban's political office in Qatar, who insisted only they were empowered to negotiate.
"People ... were not happy with Mullah Mansour when he agreed with Pakistan ... to hold a meeting with Kabul," said a Taliban commander based in Quetta.
"The Qatar office wasn't taken into confidence before taking such an important decision."
The Quetta shura has sent a six-member team to Qatari capital Doha to meet with one of its leaders, Tayyab Agha, seeking his support for Mansour, according to another Taliban source close to the leadership.
RELATIONS WITH PAKISTAN
The divisions threaten a formal split in the Taliban. They also provide an opening to rival Islamic State (IS), the Middle East-based extremist movement that has attracted renegade Taliban commanders in both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
This month, two Afghan militant groups swore allegiance to Islamic State, and more could follow suit.
Despite threats both internal and external, Taliban fighters have been gaining territory inAfghanistan, where they are trying to topple the Western-backed government.
This week another district, this time in the south, fell to insurgents, who have exploited the absence of most NATO troops after they withdrew at the end of last year.
Opponents of Mansour criticize him for being too close to Pakistan's military, which has long been accused of supporting the Afghan insurgency to maintain regional influence.
Pakistan has pushed Taliban leaders based in its territory hard to come to the negotiating table at the request of ally China and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
But many Taliban, and some Afghan officials, fear the recent talks are a ploy by Pakistanto retain control. The Pakistanis deny that.
Still, Mansour cannot afford to alienate Pakistan, said Saifullah Mahsud of the Islamabad-based FATA Research Centre.
"No matter who is in charge of the Taliban in Afghanistan, they will have no choice but to have a good relationship with the Pakistani state. It's a matter of survival," Mahsud said.
"I don't think this agreement to go to the negotiating table is determined by personality; it's more about the circumstances."
Despite the opposition, Mansour retains a personal power base within the Taliban, and if he can keep the movement together it could lead to a new era for the insurgents.
Bette Dam, author of an upcoming biography of Mullah Omar, said the supreme leader's absence paralyzed many Taliban officials.
Mansour could provide a more active focus for both the movement's rank-and-file and those seeking to engage the Taliban.
"If he gets the credibility, it might not be such bad news to have Mansour replace the invisible Mullah Omar," she said.
(Additional reporting by Katharine Houreld in Islamabad and Jessica Donati in Kabul; Writing by Kay Johnson; Editing by Mike Collett-White )
HUSSEIN OBAMA TO THE RESCUE WITH THREE MAGIC BEANS
Xamnevets 23 hours ago
I understand the sanctuary cities are going to take them in with the blessings of Obama.
hmadden Yesterday at 4:13 PM
There will be no cease fire. Because the Taliban don't really want one. Ever.
Richard hmadden Yesterday at 4:25 PM
Their way of life has always been fighting over crap. It has been going on for hundreds of years and will never come to an end. Their existence is to go to war and die so they can have their 27 virgins in paradise that will pleasure them.
Steve-a-rino Yesterday at 3:50 PM
If we know all the top Taliban leaders are in one room for a meeting why are we not sending a drone in to greet them? They've murdered hundreds of thousands of people. Who cares what they want to do next?
chandlerrcsc Steve-a-rino Yesterday at 3:53 PM
You took the words right out of my mouth....WTF....the news was all over this meeting ?
zooks1 Steve-a-rino 22 hours ago
Just like 98 when they called off the Bin laden hit.
steve Yesterday at 3:41 PM
why not wait for the company picnic and take out the whole shebang ??? something subtle like tainted potato salad or a coleslaw with iffy mayonnaise .
your very welcome
Islam doesn't want peace!
The only Islamic peace is when the whole world is Muslim.
Until then it is war, war, war!
Keith Hinkel Yesterday at 4:59 PM
Just wipe the Arab countries off the planet. None can be trusted, all Muslim and want Christians & Jews dead. Only answer is fire, bombs, total destruction of every inch of Arab countries. Include their leader here Obummer.
yankeejudd Keith Hinkel Yesterday at 5:16 PM
You are sick beyond comprehension. What an utterly waste of life. Your mother should have believed in abortion
larryraybin Yesterday at 6:00 PM
The republicans can get all the guns they need from the NRA for free, then they need to gather their bibles and beer and kill, kill, kill because that is all they think about
socraticknight Yesterday at 3:59 PM
the current and worst potus in US history probably wants to be the new taliban leader, because he thinks he could have been more successful as a terrorist; also, as his racist not-so-good-Christian reverend said to the author of "the amateur", "he still holds on to his muslim beliefs.
Richard socraticknight Yesterday at 4:26 PM
Fox and MSNBC old ineffective news stories. You really need to find some new BS to spread.
Is it the black thing with you?
whstokey Yesterday at 6:05 PM
Just like a bug when it hit's your windshield a 60 mph. We missed a great opportunity to decide the last thing that went through everyones mind.
