By Andy Sully BBC News
1 August 2015
The coverage from Calais rumbles relentlessly onwards, in a way British truckers can only dream their vehicles will.
Much of the coverage focuses on disappointment with the measures announced by David Cameron to ease the situation; measures the Daily Mail brands as "feeble" .
These include more parking for stranded HGVs; extra fencing at the Eurotunnel site; more sniffer dogs to detect stowaways on lorries; a plan to increase ferry capacity on other routes and a promise to fast-track a new immigration bill through parliament when it reconvenes in September.
The Independent estimates that up to 150 migrants have reached Britain illegally from Calais since the crisis began
The chief of the Road Haulage Association, Richard Burnett, is quoted as saying, "The measures aren't enough, they are just sticking plasters in terms of trying to resolve this problem.
"Until we actually contain the situation in Calais with the migrants, this situation is a crisis and it's out of control."
Elsewhere in the paper, reporter Sue Reid says that British-based gangsters have been charging migrants 1,500 to be guaranteed to be trafficked into Britain, often in the lorries of poorly paid Eastern European truckers who have been bribed.
In the Daily Telegraph, chief reporter Gordon Rayner visits east Kent where residents tell him they feel trapped in their own homes by the 24-hour traffic jams, and local businesses fear they will be ruined.
"This is meant to be the garden of England, but we are now the car park of England," one local tells him.
The Daily Express, like the Mail, is disappointed with the new measures.
Its editorial says: "It would be foolishly optimistic to expect the tenacious migrants to be foiled by something so simple.
Chipping Norton: not in the migration front-line
"These half-hearted measures are also unlikely to make it significantly safer and easier for legal travellers to make it through Calais."
The Daily Mirror calls on Mr Cameron to cancel his summer break and says, "While the government dithered, migrants have entered the country, firms have lost money and holidays been disrupted."
The Independent's Cahal Milmo says the facts as reported in other papers have exaggerated the scale of the problem.
He contends that the reports that 2,000 migrants a night have attempted to storm the Tunnel's defences ignore the fact that the French police figures count multiple attempts by the same people - the actual numbers on the ground are 200 to 300 a night.
He adds that the widely reported loss to the British economy of 250m a day from the situation presupposes that all trade between Dover and Calais is stopped and ruined.
Milmo says hauliers themselves estimate their total losses are 750,000 a day through delays and 2m a day in spoilt cargo having to be thrown away.
Eritrea: the nation of 6.5m has more than 570,000 people in its military
Inside the paper, Janet Street-Porter says she suspects had the crisis afflicted Mr Cameron's hometown Chipping Norton rather than "unfashionable" Kent it would have been rapidly addressed.
Former home secretary Jack Straw - writing in the Times - says EU countries should consider temporarily abandoning the Schengen Agreement, which abolished border controls in much of continental Europe.
The Financial Times's editorial says the EU must take a long-term view and use "soft power" to try to stabilise the situation in countries from which migrants originate.
In the Guardian, there is a lengthy profile of one of these. Eritrea is, after Syria and Afghanistan, the biggest provider of migrants currently trying to reach the UK.
The paper says the small East African state has become "an open air prison" and an "African North Korea" with young men liable to serve indefinite military service, and snatch squads enforcing the compulsory call-up by rounding up men on the street and even from their own homes.
Regain influence
The end date of Labour's leadership race is only six weeks away and the papers continue to be fascinated by it.
The Guardian carries an interview with candidate Andy Burnham, who tells it that Labour are at risk of returning to the "splits and factionalism" of the 1980s.
The former health secretary blames the "inflammatory language" of the supporters of the front-runner Jeremy Corbyn.
The Times says Mr Corbyn, the left of the party's candidate of choice, now appears unstoppable as constituency parties defy the wishes of their local MPs and endorse the 66-year-old.
Jeremy Corbyn has few cheerleaders in the British press - or in the Labour Party's hierarchy
The papers' cartoon marries the Corbyn surge to the migrants story, showing an lorry marked Labour driven by the Islington North MP with scores of people leaping aboard, one carrying a Communist flag.
In the Independent, columnist Andrew Grice says the election of Corbyn as leader could be the moment Labour turns into an English Syriza - the anti-austerity ruling party of Greece.
Grice says the party's anti-Corbyn "modernisers" need to get rid of "the toxic Blair brand" if they are to regain influence.
In the Daily Mirror, Jack Straw says Mr Corbyn's supporters should realise they are leading the party into a "comfort zone of far-left policies which will lead [Labour] to oblivion."
He adds that New Labour "worked" because it accepted the world was a market economy and sought to moderate how that operated.
The Daily Telegraph leads with an interview with former shadow chancellor Ed Balls who says Labour must banish "anti-business rhetoric" if it is ever to win back power.
Derek Hatton: the former Militant councillor now works in broadcasting and as a motivational speaker
"If you allow yourself to be anti-business, or anti-bank or anti-energy company, people think, 'Hang on a second, you have to work with these people if you want to govern'," he tells the paper.
The Daily Mail says "countless" militant "zealots" are joining Labour by paying 3 online to become a registered supporter.
These include former Liverpool City Council deputy leader Derek Hatton, who was expelled from the party in 1986.
Fallout
The Independent leads on another politics story - the furious reaction of doctors' leaders to Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt's assertion that the profession needed to "get real" and adapt to seven-days-a-week working.
The paper says British Medical Association head Dr Mark Porter has used "unprecedented language" to attack Mr Hunt for "calling into question the professionalism of the most senior doctors".
The BMA says 88% of hospital consultants already work some weekends, and the profession is "furious" over the suggestion that everyone takes Saturdays and Sundays off.
The Independent says "BMA negotiators are preparing for last-minute talks over both consultant and junior doctor contracts ahead of a September deadline, at which point Mr Hunt has said he would be willing to impose a new contract."
Dr Porter says research from his organisation revealed that  Monday-to-Friday consultant work patterns were a "myth peddled by the health secretary.
Health secretary Jeremy Hunt has "infuriated" doctors the BMA claims
"His comments are demoralising at a time when frontline NHS staff are working longer and harder in an NHS that is under increasing pressure and still trying to deal with the fallout from the last government's unwanted reorganisation."
The paper says that although Mr Hunt claims 6,000 people a year lose their life due to inadequate weekend services in hospitals, statistics are unclear as to whether any patient is more likely to die on a Saturday or Sunday.
NHS chiefs say those admitted to hospitals on weekends are likely to be more ill than those admitted during week days.
Other experts quoted in the Independent question how the enhanced weekend staffing proposed can be funded from NHS resources.
A Department of Health spokesperson tells the paper: "The BMA can't have it both ways: if most consultants do work weekends why are they objecting to removing the right to opt out of weekend work?
"If we are to reduce avoidable deaths, it isn't just the Health Secretary who is insisting on change: hospital leaders, senior clinicians, patient groups and the independent NHS pay review bodies all say the opt-out should be removed."
Edging to glory
And finally sport - specifically cricket.
There is no shortage of comment on England's Lazarus like rebirth at Edgbaston to take the third Ashes test, following their crushing at Lord's in the second. The win leaves England with a 2-1 series lead.
Geoffrey Boycott in the Daily Telegraph says that although neutrals may fancy an Australian victory at Trent Bridge to set up a tense fifth test finale at the Oval, he would like to see the tourists sent home "with their tails between their legs".
"They did a lot of crowing when they were beating us 5-0 on the last tour 18 months ago" he says, and now it's pay-back time.
Test legend Geoffrey Boycott wants to punish Australian "crowing"
He credits England coach Trevor Bayliss for asking for a "traditional English pitch" at Edgbaston in order to make use of England's "two world-class" seam bowlers.
In the same paper, cricket correspondent Scyld Berry says "the most significant moment" in England's run chase was when Australian fast-bowler Mitchell Johnson showed that the jeers and chants of a partisan crowd had "got to him".
The crowd at Lord's by contrast, Berry says, "was far too polite too boo".
The Financial Times's sports reporter Matthew Engel says England are "edging to Ashes glory" after a dominant performance.
"One hand on the trophy? Not that, but perhaps the captain's little finger might be twitching a little," he says.
Aussie captain Clarke: feeling the pressure
Australian journalist Gideon Haigh gives the Times the reaction from Down Under.
Pondering the defeat's effect on Michael Clarke he says: "What awaits Australia's captain?
"At Edgbaston he suffered what ranks as his poorest games in charge.
"The stardust he scattered around Australia's efforts in 2013-14 was missing."
Above all, Haigh says, Clarke will be haunted by his decision to bat first.
Making people click
Sun : Lady Bra Bra: underwear firm boss Michelle Mone to be created a Conservative peer
Mail : 'Osama Bin Laden step-mother and sister die in Hampshire plane crash'
Telegraph : Where to view the blue moon
Times : Zimbabwe seeks to extradite Walter Palmer
Latest Tweets
RT @MsHelicat : INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY: OFFICIAL - UK NEEDS MORE SUNSHINE #tomorrowspaperstoday #BBCPapers http://t.co/RxLFULqf6U
6 hours ago
RT @MsHelicat : SUNDAY EXPRESS: French: we'll let migrants into UK #tomorrowspaperstoday #BBCPapers http://t.co/6uU7SJUmcA
6 hours ago
6 hours ago
