To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter
During the weeks when the world was held captive by New Horizons, Dawn had been mapping Ceres; now, it is on its third mapping orbit.
Topographic elevation map of Ceres showing newly-named craters.
Currently, Dawn is spiraling toward its third science orbit, which is about 900 miles above the surface, or three times closer to Ceres than its previous orbit. Since March, NASAs Dwarf spacecraft has been examining it. In the maps different colors have been used to show the differences of heights of various craters and peaks present on Ceres. The features are pretty consistent with an ice-rich crust, Paul Schenk, a Dawn science team member and geologist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, said in a press release.
Some craters and features have been officially named. The latest batch of 18 names is a very multicultural bunch, devoted largely to Earth-based deities. The name Occator was given the crater that is known for hosting Ceres brightest spots, the cause of which has been a highly publicized mystery. It is named for the Roman god of harrowing, which is a method of levelling soil. A smaller bright crater, formerly the unassuming Spot 1, now goes by the appellation Haulani, referencing a Hawaiian plant goddess.
With craters 3.7 miles (6 km) deep and mountains rising about the same distance from its surface, Ceres bears a resemblance to some of Saturns frozen moons. This pair of images shows color-coded maps from NASAs Dawn mission, revealing the highs and lows of topography on the surface of dwarf planet Ceres.
Dantu crater, named after the Ghanaian god associated with the planting of corn, is about 75 miles (120 kilometers) across and 3 miles (5 kilometers) deep.
On July 28, NASA has released attractive maps of Ceres, which is present in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. The spacecraft will reach this orbit in mid-August, and it will resume collecting images and other data.
Scientists are getting some new insights on some mysterious bright spots when it comes to the dwarf planet Ceres.
The American space agency spacecraft New Horizon that recently made history after becoming the first ever craft to successfully flyby the dwarf planet Pluto; the craft has been in limelight for sending brilliant coverage of Pluto. It conducted extensive observations of Vesta in 2011-2012.
Leave a Reply
