You have successfully emailed the post.
Biden's late son urged him to run for U.S. presidency: New York Times
Thomson ReutersVice President Joe Biden and family attend funeral services for former Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden, son of Vice President Biden, at St. Anthony of Padua Church in Wilmington
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Vice President Joe Biden, inspired in part by his late son, has been holding meetings at his Washington home to discuss challenging Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, The New York Times reported on Saturday.
Biden has said publicly he would make a decision at the end of the summer. According to Times columnist Maureen Dowd: "Biden is also talking to friends, family and donors about jumping in. The 72-year-old vice president has been having meetings at his Washington residence to explore the idea of taking on Hillary in Iowa and New Hampshire."
Dowd cited a conversation in which Beau Biden, a former attorney general of Delaware who was dying of cancer at the time, tried to get his father to promise he would run. The vice president's younger son, Hunter, also encouraged him to seek the presidency, the Times said.
Dowd, who has often been critical of Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, said a campaign by Biden might be complicated for Biden because he has a good relationship with Hillary Clinton and respects the Democratic Party's desire to put a woman in the White House.
Biden sought the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988 and 2008.
Beau Biden died of brain cancer in May at age 46.
The White House had no immediate comment on Biden's plans.
(Writing by Bill Trott; Editing by Richard Chang)
Read the original article on Reuters .  Copyright 2015. Follow Reuters on Twitter .
More from Reuters:
Loading
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Vice President Joe...
Recommended For You
Featured
10 Things Before the Opening Bell
Instant MBA
Breaking News
Digital Media Chart Of The Day
IoT Chart of the Day
Closing Bell
Thanks to our partners
* Copyright  2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
