Zimbabwe: U.S to Build U.S $200 Million Embassy Compound in Harare
THE US government will this year begin the construction of a new Embassy compound in Harare valued at $199 million.
This comes after the Department of State Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations (OBO) awarded a tender to B.L. Harbert, International of Birmingham, Alabama for the construction work.
The new Embassy will be located on a 16.5-acre site in the Bluff Hill area. The complex will include an office building and associated support facilities.
US ambassador to Zimbabwe, Bruce Wharton, revealed this information in Harare recently.
He told delegates at an embassy function that the decision was a sign of US government's commitment to improve relations between the two countries.
"We continue to believe in the promise of our ideals. And, we continue to believe that we can build a future that honors those ideals. That same optimism guides our approach to Zimbabwe," said Wharton.
"We continue to believe in the future of US-Zimbabwe relations, so we are embarking on a multi-million dollar project to build a new embassy compound, a project that will create jobs and skills, boost Harare's economy, and serve as a clear expression of our commitment to Zimbabwe."
The US-Zimbabwe relationship has been strained for years, and President Robert Mugabe often turns the rhetoric up against what he says are "imperialists".
Earlier this year, the US extended sanctions targeted at "certain members of the Zimbabwean government and other persons" whose actions and policies "undermine Zimbabwe's democratic processes and institutions."
US President Barack Obama invoked an executive order issued by predecessor George Bush in 2003 that declared a national emergency in relation to Zimbabwe for the "unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States" posed by the targeted Zimbabweans.
In addition, sequential elections tainted by political violence kept the relationship bitter.
Although other Zanu PF allies have been dropped from the targeted measures, the US has maintained sanctions on Mugabe.

Copyright  2015 New Zimbabwe. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media ( allAfrica.com ). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections  or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here.
AllAfrica publishes around 2,000 reports a day from more than 130 news organizations and over 200 other institutions and individuals , representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.
Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica . To address comments or complaints, please Contact us .
Follow AllAfrica
AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC.
