Donald Trump has something new to crow about.
The latest numbers from the Reuters/Ipsos five-day tracking poll has boastful billionaire as the presidential choice of almost 30 percent of Republicans surveyeda stratospheric mark given the fragmented presidential field.
U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump views the Trump Turnberry resort during a visit to his Scottish golf course Turnberry Action Images via Reuters / Russell Cheyne Livepic
Hes hitting a new high with the first Republican debate just days away: Aug. 6, in Cleveland, Ohio, where coverage of Trump before, during, and after the contest is likely grow even more feverish given the new numbers.
Trumps current surgehes been gaining strength meteorically all week, according to the pollhas knocked his closest rival, Jeb Bush, back behind him by almost 20 points. Bush sits at 11 percent, with the rest of contenders gasping for air at less than 8 percent.
At a week ago this time, the Reuters/Ipsos poll had Trump at just 15 percent.
It isnt just Reuters. A Quinnipiac University poll released Thursday showed the reality TV star leading the Republican field at 20 percent, even as he trails the Democrats. And earlier in the week, the new NBC News/Marist poll had Trump leading in New Hampshire at 21 percent and trailing only Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker in Iowa, at 19 and 17 percent respectively.
Looks like its time for rival Republican strategists to double downon antacids.
(The most recent Reuters/Ipsos rolling poll was taken July 26-31, using a sample of 439 Republicans with a credibility interval of plus or minus 5.4 percentage points.)
 Previous Post
4 comments
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/
Jul 31, 2015
6:14 pm UTC
So will you now call Mrs. Clinton a deceiving millionaire?
Aug 1, 2015
2:53 pm UTC
It is his simplicity and truthfulness and dynamism people like.As a president the first quality is to inspire people like what Obama did at Germany.For immigrants he emphasize he objects only illegal immigrants.Not legal ones.He covers all classes of voters for him what he has to do.
Aug 1, 2015
11:16 pm UTC
Whats not to like about Trump?  He calls BS BS, and doesnt let the overly liberal and PC media tell him how to act, what to say or what to do.  Plus, he knows the Repubs are idiots and tells them so!
Aug 1, 2015
2:59 am UTC
I love the fact he does not need others money.  Maybe he can make a decision without worrying about his donors interests, hey, maybe he run the country and do things best for all the people, not just the ones with big money. Go Trump.
James Oliphant is a Reuters correspondent covering the 2016 presidential election.
Any opinions expressed here are the author's own.
Reuters Analysis & Opinion
