
Live Cricket Score Bangladesh vs South Africa 2015, 2nd Test at Dhaka, Day 4: Rain delays start of play - Latest Cricket News, Articles & Videos at CricketCountry.com
Hello and welcome to CricketCountrys coverage of the fourth day of the second and final Test between Bangladesh and South Africa at Dhaka. This is Nikhil Popat and I will be bringing you the updates from the match. The first Test was marred by rain and more such is expected in the second Test. Bangladesh started the first day well after winning the toss and electing to bat first. They have put up a decent show so far and will wish to add as many runs possible. Rain washed out the entire Day Two and both teams will hope for play to get underway going forward. Will the home side manage to get the total towards 300? Or will South Africa wrap things up soon and dominate with an impressive batting performance? Catch all the updates here. Catch live cricket scores and ball-by-ball commentary of Bangladesh vs South Africa 2015, 2nd Test at Dhaka, Day 4 here
0815 IST: The saga continues folks! The rain continues to hamper this Test, it is bucketing down in Dhaka.
Day 4 #BANvSA rain and more rain. Nothing else to report. pic.twitter.com/qort1gdfVF

Both the teams will be hoping that the rain allows some play. Bangladesh will want to get back on the field, get a score under their belt and with so much rain coming, the pitch might not quite behave unexpectedly and will wish to catch South Africa off guard. Lets see what is in store for us.
Teams:
Bangladesh XI: Tamim Iqbal, Imrul Kayes, Mominul Haque, Mahmudullah, Mushfiqur Rahim(c &wk), Shakib Al Hasan, Nasir Hossain, Litton Das, Jubair Hossain, Mohammad Shahid, Mustafizur Rahman.
South Africa XI: Dean Elgar, Stiaan van Zyl, Faf du Plessis, Hashim Amla(c), Temba Bavuma, Jean-Paul Duminy, Dane Vilas(wk), Vernon Philander, Simon Harmer, Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel.
tags:
SERIES:
Thu, Aug 6, 2015 (15:30 IST)  at Nottingham
Sat, Aug 1, 2015 at Colombo
Pakistan won by 1 wkt
Thu, Jul 30, 2015 at Colombo
Pakistan won by 29 runs
Wed, Jul 29, 2015 at Birmingham
England won by 8 wkts
YOU MAY ALSO READ
