Latest News
By Julie Bykowicz, Associated Press
August 1, 2015
AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File
of
Washington  Nearly all of the contenders for president are encouraging their deep-pocketed donors to give not just to their campaigns, but to groups known as superPACs as well.
Unlike campaigns, these outside groups aren't limited in how much money they can accept from individual donors. While they can't directly take orders from the candidates they're spending money to help elect, they still account for about $2 of every $3 raised so far in the 2016 race for president.
Many superPACs had to file their first fundraising reports with federal regulators by midnight Friday. The superPAC filings will detail how money was raised and spent from January to the end of June and include the names of donors.
Two weeks ago, many of the candidates filed their first campaign fundraising reports. Together, the reports from the superPACs and the candidates will produce the first major accounting of who is paying for the campaign for president.
___
THE BIGGEST DONORS
A superPAC aiming to help Texas Sen. Ted Cruz win the Republican presidential nomination raised from a single donor nearly as much as the candidate's formal campaign raised in three months. A $10 million donation from Toby Neugebauer is the largest contribution so far to any of the candidate-specific superPACs. Neugebauer is an energy investor in Texas and the son of GOP Rep. Randy Neugebauer. The money went to Keep the Promise II, one of several similarly named superPACs all working to help elect Cruz.
___
LOCAL MILLIONS FOR WALKER, RUBIO
TD Ameritrade's billionaire founder Joe Ricketts, his wife, Marlene, and their son Todd together gave just over $5 million to a superPAC supporting Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's Republican presidential ambitions. The Ricketts family owns the Chicago Cubs. Diane Hendricks, the billionaire executive of a wholesale roofing company headquartered in Wisconsin, also wrote a $5 million check.
Those donors accounted for half of the money raised by the pro-Walker superPAC, called Unintimidated. Richard Uihlein and his wife, Elizabeth, gave $2.5 million. In recent years, Uihlein moved his packaging supply company, Uline, entirely out of Illinois and into Wisconsin because of tax incentives.
Million-dollar donors also featured prominently in the superPAC supporting Florida Sen. Marco Rubio's presidential bid. Miami-based automobile dealer Norman Braman gave $5 million; Besilu Stables LLC, owned by Miami health care executive Benjamin Leon, gave $2.5 million. In total, the group Conservative Solutions pulled in about $16 million, including a $3 million gift from Oracle founder Larry Ellison.
___
JEB BUSH'S JUGGERNAUT
Right to Rise, a superPAC helping Republican former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, is backed by two dozen donors who have given $1 million or more. Miguel "Mike" Fernandez, a Miami health care investor, made the biggest contribution at just over $3 million.
Four Texas couples who built fortunes from the oil and gas industry are also among the biggest donors, with each couple contributing $2 million: Trevor and Jan Rees-Jones, Ray and Nancy Hunt, Richard and Nancy Kinder, and Hushang and Shahla Ansary.
___
CORPORATE DONORS
Another highlight of the Right to Rise donor list is corporate money. Four dozen corporations or organizations gave a total of more than $16 million to the superPAC, or about 15 percent of its overall haul.
The largest corporate contribution was $2 million from Rooney Holdings, a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based construction company. San Francisco-based American Pacific International Capital Inc., an investor and developer with projects in the United States and China, gave $1.3 million.
Another roughly $1 million gift came from Juno Beach, Florida-based Nextera Energy Inc., a large energy company that operates in 27 states and Canada. The company owns Florida Power and Light, the largest electric company in the state, where Bush was governor. The charitable trust for the U.S. Sugar Corporation, a sugar-cane producer based in Florida, gave $505,000.
Meanwhile, Manhattan-based Access Industries, an international holding company led by Len Blavatnik, one of the world's wealthiest men, gave $1 million to a pro-Walker superPAC and $500,000 to one supporting the longshot presidential ambitions of South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham.
___
CHRIS CHRISTIE SUPPORTERS
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie may not be leading in the Republican presidential polls, but his supporters are contributing six and seven figures to a superPAC supporting his candidacy.
The filing from the America Leads superPAC provides one of the first insights into Christie's fundraising network, which includes notable names such as New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon, Hewlett-Packard Chief Meg Whitman and Linda McMahon, the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment. The group raised $11 million through the end of June.
Among the largest contributions were $1 million each from hedge fund manager Steven Cohen and his wife Alexandra Marie Cohen, and $750,000 from Quicken Loans founder Daniel Gilbert. Christie's brother Todd gave $100,000, while long time Christie cheerleader and Home Depot co-founder Ken Langone gave $250,000.
___
RAND PAUL'S (PAY)PALS
PayPal board member and Silicon Valley investor Scott Banister gave $1.25 million to Concerned American Voters, one of three superPACs supporting Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul's presidential bid. All three filed their FEC reports earlier this week.
Two other donors gave big to pro-Paul entities. Jeff Yass, managing director of high-frequency trading firm Susquehanna International Group, split a $2 million contribution between Purple PAC and America's Liberty. George Macricostas, head of a data center company called RagingWire, gave more than $1 million to America's Liberty.
___
RICK PERRY'S TEXAS TWOSOME
Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry isn't performing well enough in national polls to guarantee he'll have a spot on the first GOP debate stage, and his campaign has so far only raised about $1 million. But thanks to two Texans, his presidential effort has the money to carry on.
Several superPACs working together as an operation called Opportunity and Freedom say they raised $16.8 million through June 30. About two-thirds came from Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason.
___
DEMOCRATIC DOLDRUMS
There won't be much talk of Democrats in the presidential superPAC filings. That's because they account for less than 9 percent of the total superPAC haul so far, according to an Associated Press analysis that compared money raised by formal presidential campaigns with what the superPACs say they plan to report having raised on Friday.
Priorities USA Action, the main group helping Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton, will report having raised $15.6 million by June 30. Haim Saban, an entertainment executive, gave $2 million to Priorities, making him the top donor. Hedge fund billionaire George Soros, one of the biggest Democratic donors in earlier elections, gave $1 million.
Related Stories
Popular Now
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.
Daily
Your name:
Saved ( of items)
This item has been saved to read later from any device.
Access saved items through your user name at the top of the page.
Please visit following link to manage you saved items.
