NEWS
9.2
Your rating:
Creator:
Keep track of everything you watch; tell your friends.
Error
In MR. ROBOT, Elliot, a cyber-security engineer by day and vigilante hacker by night, is recruited by a mysterious underground group to destroy the firm he's paid to protect. Elliot must decide how ...
9.5
Rate this
Elliot must choose between job offers from Evil Corp, and fsociety.
9.1
Rate this
Fsociety attempts to penetrate Steel Mountain, the most secure data facility in America.
9.1
Rate this
Related News
created 19Sep2012
created 15Nov2012
created 10Aug2013
created 5monthsago
created 2monthsago
Connect with IMDb
Share this Rating
9.2/10
Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below.
You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin.
Episodes
Most Recent Episode
Wednesday, July 22
Rate this
Previous Episode
Rate this
Drama | Sci-Fi
Stars: Gemma Chan, Katherine Parkinson, Tom Goodman-Hill
Drama | Sci-Fi | Thriller
Stars: Marc Bendavid, Melissa O'Neil, Anthony Lemke
Crime | Drama | Mystery
Stars: Vince Vaughn, Colin Farrell, Rachel McAdams
Drama | Mystery | Sci-Fi
Stars: Matt Dillon, Carla Gugino, Shannyn Sossamon
Action | Crime | Drama
Stars: Charlie Cox, Vincent D'Onofrio, Deborah Ann Woll
Adventure | Drama | Fantasy
Stars: Emilia Clarke, Peter Dinklage, Kit Harington
Drama | Mystery | Sci-Fi
Stars: Aml Ameen, Doona Bae, Jamie Clayton
Drama | Thriller
Stars: James Wolk, Kristen Connolly, Nonso Anozie
Comedy | Drama | Sport
Stars: Dwayne Johnson, John David Washington, Omar Benson Miller
Drama
Stars: Kevin Spacey, Michel Gill, Robin Wright
Crime | Drama | Thriller
Stars: Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn
Comedy | Drama
Stars: Gabriel Macht, Patrick J. Adams, Meghan Markle
Elliot Alderson, a young cyber-security engineer living in New York who assumes the role of a vigilante hacker by night. Elliot meets a mysterious anarchist known as "Mr. Robot" who recruits Elliot to join his team of hackers, "fsociety". Elliot, who has a social anxiety disorder and connects to people by hacking them, is intrigued but uncertain if he wants to be part of the group. The show follows Mr. Robot's attempts to engage Elliot in his mission to destroy the corporation Elliot is paid to protect. Compelled by his personal beliefs, Elliot struggles to resist the chance to take down the multinational CEOs that are running (and ruining) the world. Written by Soumik Ghosh
Also Known As:
Trivia
E Corp's logo bears striking resemblance to that of Enron, a Houston-based corporation that famously went bankrupt in 2001 after accounting fraud was uncovered. See more 
Quotes
Elliot :What I'm about to tell you is top secret. There's a powerful group of people out there that are secretly running the world. I'm talking about the guys no one knows about. They guys who are invisible. The top 1% of the top 1%. The guys that play God without permission. And now I think they're following me.
I wanted to write a 2 sentence review; 'Bravo! More please...' However IMDb doesn't allow for that and neither does it let me place the spacing as I would like, between my lines of commentary and review, which is rather frustrating IMDb.
This looks really promising. It's intelligent (thank the Gods. Yes!), absorbing, interesting and different to the usual garbage trotted out by the truck load to invade our space every minute of the day. (How many times can you watch a person cook food, or 'be themselves' on a 'reality' show, or renovate a dwelling/building? It's inane and mind-numbing stuff).
The main character, Elliot, reminds me of a couple of Aspie friends I have. I'm not sure if the writers were going for that in any way, yet it's the closest portrayal of a person with such idiosyncrasies I have seen on television. The young man playing Elliot is fantastic in the role. Very subtle and natural which lends to believability in the character.
There's a television in my lounge-room which spends its time gathering dust. This is one reason to use it.
73 of 86 people found this review helpful. Was this review helpful to you?
Yes
No
Create 
IMDb Everywhere
Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!
